SENTENCE the word opera means work ,  actually it means works .
SENTENCE it's the plural of the word opus from the latin .
SENTENCE and in italian it refers in general to works of art .
SENTENCE opera lyrica or lyric opera refers to what we think of as opera ,  the musical drama .
SENTENCE opera was commonplace in italy for almost a thousand years before it became commercial as a venture .
SENTENCE and during those years ,  several things happened ,  primarily linguistic or thematic and both involving secularization .
SENTENCE musical drama started in the churches .
SENTENCE it was an educational tool .
SENTENCE it was used primarily as a vehicle for teaching religion and was generally presented in latin ,  the language of the christian church which had considerable influence in italy at that time .
SENTENCE but the language of everyday life was evolving in europe and at a certain point in the middle ages it was really only merchants ,  aristocrats and clergy who could deal with latin .
SENTENCE the vast majority of the population used their own regional vernacular in all aspects of their lives .
SENTENCE and so in what is now italy ,  operas quit being presented in latin and started being presented in italian .
SENTENCE and once that happened ,  the themes of the opera presentations also started to change .
SENTENCE and musical drama moved from the church to the plaza right outside the church .
SENTENCE and the themes again ,  the themes changed .
SENTENCE and opera was no longer about teaching religion as it was about satire and about expressing the ideas of society or government without committing yourself to writing and risking imprisonment or persecution ,  or what have you .
SENTENCE opera ,  as we think of it ,  is of course a resurrected form .
SENTENCE it is the melodious drama of ancient greek theater ,  the term  melodious drama  being shortened eventually to  melodrama  because operas frequently are melodramatic ,  not to say unrealistic .
SENTENCE and the group that put the first operas together that we have today then ,  were ,  well it was a group of men that included galileo's father vincenzo ,  and they met in florence he and a group of friends of the count of bardi and they formed what is called the camerata dei bardi .
SENTENCE and they took classical theater and reproduced it in the renaissance time .
SENTENCE this uh this produced some of the operas that we have today .
SENTENCE now what happened in the following century is very simple .
SENTENCE opera originated in italy but was not confined to italy any more than italians were .
SENTENCE and so as italians migrated across europe ,  they carried theater with them and opera specifically because it was an italian form .
SENTENCE what happened is that the major divide in opera that endures today took place .
SENTENCE the french said opera ought to reflect the rhythm and cadence of dramatic literature ,  bearing in mind that we are talking about the golden age in french literature .
SENTENCE and so the music was secondary ,  if you will ,  to the dramatic cadence of language ,  to the way the rhythm of language was used to express feeling and used to add drama and of course as a result instead of arias or solos ,  which would come to dominate italian opera .
SENTENCE the french relied on what the italians called recitativo or recitative in english .
SENTENCE the lyrics were spoken ,  frequently to the accompaniment of a harpsichord .
SENTENCE the french said you really can't talk about real people who lived in opera and they relied on mythology to give them their characters and their plots ,  mythology ,  the pastoral traditions ,  the novels of chivalry or the epics of chivalry out of the middle ages .
SENTENCE the italians said ,  no this is a great historical tool and what better way to educate the public about nero or attila or any number of people than to put them into a play they can see and listen to .
SENTENCE the english appropriated opera after the french .
SENTENCE opera came late to england because all theaters ,  public theaters were closed ,  of course ,  during their civil war .
SENTENCE and it wasn't until the restoration in 166  that public theaters again opened and opera took off .
SENTENCE the english made a major adjustment to opera and exported what they had done to opera back to italy .
SENTENCE so that you have this circle of musical influences ,  the italians invented opera ,  the french adapted it ,  the english adopted it ,  the italians took it back .
SENTENCE it came to america late and was considered to elitist for the general public .
SENTENCE but broadway musicals fulfilled a similar function for a great long while .
SENTENCE john jay chapman wrote about opera ,  quote ,   if an extraterrestrial being were to appear before us and say ,  what is your society like ,  what is this earth thing all about ,  you could do worse than take that creature to an opera .
SENTENCE end quote .
SENTENCE because opera does ,  after all ,  begin with a man and a woman and an emotion .
QUESTION what does the professor say about music in french opera
OPTION it resembled sacred church music 0
OPTION it often inspired french novelists to write great piece of literature 0
OPTION it revolved mainly around solo pieces 0
OPTION it was secondary to the rhythmic flow of language 1
