SENTENCE well ,  it's finally looking like spring is arriving .
SENTENCE the last of the winter snow would be melting away in a few days .
SENTENCE so before we close today ,  i thought i'd mention a biological event that's a part of the transition from winter to spring ,  something you can go outside and watch if you have some patience .
SENTENCE there is a small creature that lives in this area  you've probably seen it .
SENTENCE it's the north american wood frog .
SENTENCE now the wood frog's not that easy tosspot since it stays pretty to close to the ground ,  under leaves and things and it blends in really well with its background as you can see .
SENTENCE but they are worth the effort because they do something very unusual ,  something you might not have even thought possible .
SENTENCE ok north american wood frogs live over a very broad territory or range .
SENTENCE they're found all over the northeastern united states and all through canada and alaska ,  even inside the arctic circle .
SENTENCE no other frog is able to live that far and north .
SENTENCE but wherever they live ,  once the weather starts to turn cold and the temperature starts to drop below freezing ,  as soon as the frog even touches an ice crystal or a bit of frozen ground ,  well ,  it begins to freeze .
SENTENCE yeah  yes to me .
SENTENCE you look a little bit taken aback .
SENTENCE wait ,  you mean it's still alive but it freezes ,  solid ?
SENTENCE well ,  almost .
SENTENCE ice forms in all the spaces outside the cells but never within a cell .
SENTENCE but  then how does its heart beat ?
SENTENCE but then how could it   .
SENTENCE you are gonna do such a thing ?
SENTENCE well ,  that first touch of ice apparently triggers a biological response inside the frog .
SENTENCE that first of all starts drawing water away from the center of its body ,  so the middle part of the frog ,  its internal organs ,  its heart ,  lungs ,  liver ,  these start getting drier and drier while the water that's being pulled away is forming a puddle around the organs just underneath the skin .
SENTENCE and then that puddle of water starts to freeze .
SENTENCE ok ,  up to known ,  the frog's heart is still beating ,  right ?
SENTENCE slower and slower but and in those last few hours before it freezes ,  it distributes glucose ,  a blood sugar throughout its body ,  its circulatory system ,  sort of acts like an an antifreeze .
SENTENCE a solution of antifreeze like you put in your car in the winter ?
SENTENCE well ,  you tell me .
SENTENCE in frogs ,  the extra glucose makes it harder for the winter inside the cells to freeze .
SENTENCE so the cells stay just slightly wet ,  enough so that they can survive the winter .
SENTENCE then after that ,  the heart stops beating altogether .
SENTENCE so is that the same ?
SENTENCE i don't really know ,  but how long dose it stay that way ?
SENTENCE well ,  it could be days or months ,  all winter in fact but umm ,  see the heart really doesn't need to do any pumping now because the blood is frozen too .
SENTENCE i just ,  i guess i just don't see how it isn't ,  you know ,  clinically dead .
SENTENCE well ,  that's the amazing thing and how it revives is pretty amazing too .
SENTENCE after months without a heartbeat ,  spring time came around again ,  the earth starts to warm up and suddenly one day ,  ping ,  a pulse ,  followed by another one ,  then another until maybe ten ,  twelve hours later ,  the animal is fully recovered .
SENTENCE and does the thawing process have some kind of trigger as well ?
SENTENCE well ,  we are not sure actually ,  the clearer thing is even though the sun is warning the frog up on the outside ,  its inside thaw out first ,  the heart and brain and everything .
SENTENCE but somehow it all just happens that way every spring .
SENTENCE but after they thaw does it affect them like their lifespan ?
SENTENCE well ,  hmm ,  we really don't know a lot about how long a wood frog normally lives ,  probably just a few years but there is no evidence its longevity .
SENTENCE it does have some other impacts though .
SENTENCE in studies ,  we found that when it comes to reproduction ,  freezing diminishes the mating performance of males .
SENTENCE after they've been frozen and thawed of course ,  they don't seem quite as vocal .
SENTENCE they move slower and they seem to have a harder time recognizing a potential mate .
SENTENCE so if the male frog could manage not to go through this freezing cycle ,  he'd probably have more success in mating .
QUESTION what is the main purpose of the lecture
OPTION to explain the biological advantages of a physical change that occurs in north american wood frogs 0
OPTION to explain why the north american good frog's habitat range has expanded 0
OPTION to describe the functioning of the circulatory system of the north american wood frog 0
OPTION to introduce students to an unusual phenomenon affecting north american wood frogs 1
