SENTENCE since we are going to talk about changes in animal populations in the wild ,  i'd like to ask about somethingi read in an article online ,  about how the population size of some animal species can affect other animal species ,  and how other environmental factors come into play too .
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE relationships between animal species in a given ecosystem can get pretty complex .
SENTENCE because in addition to predator prey relationships ,  there are other variables that affect population size .
SENTENCE the article mentioned that populations of predators and their prey might go up rapidly and then decline all of a sudden .
SENTENCE oh .
SENTENCE yeah !
SENTENCE i read about that in my ecology class .
SENTENCE it happens in cycles .
SENTENCE i think that's called a boom and bust cycle .
SENTENCE right ?
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE well ,  hold on a second .
SENTENCE first i want to go over some key concepts .
SENTENCE let's say there was a species that had access to plenty of food and ideal conditions .
SENTENCE under those circumstances ,  its population would increase exponentially ,  meaning it would increase at an ever accelerating pace .
SENTENCE wow !
SENTENCE that sounds a little scary .
SENTENCE well ,  it doesn't usually happen .
SENTENCE like you said ,  a rapid population growth is often followed by a sudden decline .
SENTENCE but we do occasionally see exponential growth in nonnative species when they are transplanted into a new environment .
SENTENCE um because they face little competition and have favorable growing conditions .
SENTENCE but for most species ,  most of the time ,  resources are finite .
SENTENCE there's only so much available which leads me to my point .
SENTENCE every ecosystem has what we call a carrying capacity .
SENTENCE the carrying capacity is the maximum population size of a species that can be sustained by the resources of a particular ecosystem .
SENTENCE resources are ,  of course ,  food ,  water ,  and just as important ,  space .
SENTENCE although every species has a maximum rate at which the population of that species could increase ,  assuming ideal conditions for the species in its environment .
SENTENCE there are always going to be environmental factors that limit population growth .
SENTENCE this is called environmental resistance .
SENTENCE environmental resistance is important becauseit stops populations from growing out of control .
SENTENCE factors such food supply ,  predation and disease affect population size ,  and can change from year to year or season to season .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE i think i get it .
SENTENCE well ,  let's look at a case study .
SENTENCE that should make things clear .
SENTENCE some years ago ,  some of my colleagues conducted an experiment in an oak forest involving three different species  white footed mice ,  gypsy moths and oak trees .
SENTENCE the above text is a transcript of this lecture prepared by lady bird  qq519626928  .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE now let me explain what the situation is in this forest .
SENTENCE oak trees produce acorns ,  and acorns are a primary food source for white footed mice .
SENTENCE another food source for the white footed mice is the gypsy moth .
SENTENCE so the size of the gypsy moth population is controlled by the white footed mice ,  which is a good thing because gypsy moth caterpillars are considered pests .
SENTENCE they strip away the leaves from the oak trees every ten years or so .
SENTENCE so the mice eat both acorns from the oak trees and gypsy moths .
SENTENCE and the gypsy moth caterpillars eat oak tree leaves .
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE now ,  what makes this set of relationships particularly interesting is that oak trees only produce a large number of acorns every few years .
SENTENCE so during the years with fewer acorns ,  the white footed mice have to deal with a smaller food supply .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE but in the years with large amounts of acorns ,  the mice have more food ,  which leads to  ?
SENTENCE the white footed mice population growing .
SENTENCE and the gypsy moth population decreasing .
SENTENCE how can we know that for sure ?
SENTENCE it seems like a big jump from more acorns to fewer gypsy moths .
SENTENCE well ,  we can know for sure because in this oak forest ,  the researchers decided to test the links between acorns and the two animal species .
SENTENCE in some parts of the forest ,  they had volunteers drop a large number of extra acorns on the forest floor .
SENTENCE and in another section of the forest ,  they removed a number of white footed mice .
SENTENCE in the forest areas where extra acorns had been dropped ,  the gypsy moth population soon went into a significant decline .
SENTENCE but in the section of the forest where the white footed mice had been removed ,  the gypsy moth population exploded .
QUESTION what is the lecture mainly about
OPTION ways species in an ecosystem affect each other's population size 1
OPTION how the carrying capacity of an ecosystem is determined 0
OPTION a new theory regarding cycles in predator and prey population sizes 0
OPTION how researchers monitor the population size of animal species in the wild 0
