SENTENCE all right ,  so far we have been looking at some of the core areas of linguistics ,  like syntax ,  phonology ,  semantics ,  and these are things that we can study by looking at one language at a time ,  how sounds ,  and words ,  and sentences work in a given language .
SENTENCE but the branch of historical linguistics ,  involves the comparison of several different languages ,  or the comparison of different stages of a single language .
SENTENCE now ,  if you are comparing different languages ,  and you notice that they have a lot in common .
SENTENCE maybe they have similar sounds and words that correspond to one another that have the same meaning and that sound similar .
SENTENCE let's use a real world example .
SENTENCE in the 18th century ,  scholars who have studied the ancient languages ,  sanskrit ,  latin and greek ,  noticed that these three languages had many similarities .
SENTENCE and there might be several reasons why languages such as these had so much in common .
SENTENCE maybe it happened by chance ,  maybe one language was heavily influenced by borrowed words from the other .
SENTENCE or maybe ,  maybe the languages developed from the same source language long ago ,  that is ,  maybe they are genetically related ,  that was what happened with sanskrit ,  latin and greek .
SENTENCE these languages had so many similarities that it was concluded that they must have all come from the same source .
SENTENCE and talk about important discoveries in linguistics ,  this was certainly one of them .
SENTENCE the scholars referred to that source language as proto indo european ,  proto indo european is a reconstructed language .
SENTENCE meaning ,  it is what linguists concluded a parent language of sanskrit ,  latin and greek would have to be like .
SENTENCE and proto indo european branched out into other languages ,  which evolved into others ,  so in the end ,  many languages spoken all over the world today can trace their ancestry back to one language ,  proto indo european ,  which was spoken several thousand years ago .
SENTENCE now ,  one way of representing the evolution of languages ,  showing the way languages are related to each other ,  is with the family tree model .
SENTENCE like a family tree that you might use to trace back through generations of ancestors ,  only it's showing a family of geneticall related languages instead of people .
SENTENCE a tree model for a language family starts with one language ,  which we call a mother language ,  for example ,  proto indo european .
SENTENCE the mother language ,  is the line on the top of this diagram ,  over time ,  it branches off into new daughter languages ,  which branch into daughter languages of their own ,  and languages that have the same source ,  the same mother ,  are called sisters ,  they share a lot of characteristics ,  and this went on until we are looking at a big upside down tree languages like this .
SENTENCE it is incomplete of course ,  just to give you an idea .
SENTENCE so that's the family tree model ,  basically .
SENTENCE now ,  the tree model is a convenient way of representing the development of a language family and of showing how closely related two of more languages are .
SENTENCE but it is obviously very simplified ,  having a whole language represented by just one branch on a tree doesn't really do justice to all the variations within that language .
SENTENCE you know ,  spanish that spoken in spain isn't exactly the same as spanish that is spoken in mexico ,  for example .
SENTENCE another issue is that languages evolve very gradually ,  but the tree model makes it look like they evolve over night , like there was a distinct moment in time when a mother language clearly broke off into daughter languages .
SENTENCE but it seems to me it probably wasn't quite like that .
QUESTION based on the discussion , what information can be shown on a tree model
OPTION that several languages share a common ancestor 1
OPTION whether a language is in the process of dying out 0
OPTION when a certain language came into existence 0
OPTION why sister languages exist in the same geographical area 0
