SENTENCE ways in which animals adapt to their environment are often quite ingenious actually .
SENTENCE and as an example of this ,  let me tell you about a fish ,  a group of fish known as the notothenioids .
SENTENCE there's over 9  known species of notothenioids and they inhabit both shallow and very deep waters ,  mostly around antarctica .
SENTENCE many are fairly small ,  though the largest species can weigh up to 15  kilograms .
SENTENCE notothenioids can be identified by their large eyes ,  which are covered by a thick insulating layer of clear tissue .
SENTENCE this tissue protects their eyes from freezing .
SENTENCE remember ,  the freezing point of ocean water ,  salt water ,  is lower than for fresh water ,  negative 1 .
SENTENCE 9 degree celsius   1 .
SENTENCE 9 c  .
SENTENCE so it can get a lot colder for fish in an ocean ,  say ,  than in a river or lake .
SENTENCE so this means that the ocean waters around antarctica are cold enough to freeze most types of fish ,  but notothenioids don't freeze .
SENTENCE in fact ,  they thrive .
SENTENCE they account for some 95  of all fish in the southern ocean ,  the ocean that surrounds antarctica .
SENTENCE so ,  how unusual is that ?
SENTENCE to have a single family of fish dominating an entire ocean .
SENTENCE i mean ,  think of say ,  tropical or temperate marine environments ,  which have incredibly diverse fish populations .
SENTENCE coral reefs ,  for example ,  support over 4    types of fish ,  along with sponges ,  crustaceans ,  and many other organisms .
SENTENCE so ,  exactly when and how did the notothenioids come to dominate the southern ocean ?
SENTENCE well ,  around 3  million years ago ,  the waters around antarctica were a lot warmer than they are today .
SENTENCE um  at that time ,  antarctica was connected to south america ,  which means that warm air from the north could flow southward and heat up the antarctica waters .
SENTENCE because the water around antarctica then was relatively warm ,  it supported many types of fish .
SENTENCE and we know this from fossil evidence .
SENTENCE but the 9  or so species of notothenioids that exist today didn't exist at all back then .
SENTENCE in fact ,  only one ancestral notothenioid species existed .
SENTENCE but somewhere between 5 million and 14 million years ago ,  two major changes took place .
SENTENCE first ,  what we call a chance mutation .
SENTENCE a tiny genetic change occurred in that one notothenioid species .
SENTENCE its dna allowed for the production of a special protein ,  a protein that prevents the fish from freezing .
SENTENCE the way this this anti freeze protein works is  it binds to any ice crystals that form inside the fish .
SENTENCE this binding action prevents the ice crystals from growing larger .
SENTENCE and this is what prevents notothenioids from freezing .
SENTENCE now ,  at that time ,  the waters the notothenioids inhabited were still not freezing cold ,  so the protein didn't really make a difference as far as the fish's survival .
SENTENCE but this would change ,  because in the same period of geologic time there was a shift in the earth's continental plates .
SENTENCE continental drift caused antarctica to move apart from the landmass of south america and to drift into the southern polar region .
SENTENCE this resulted in a powerful water current encircling antarctica ,  which prevented the antarctic waters from mixing with warmer water .
SENTENCE so the southern ocean ,  isolated from that warm airflow from the north ,  cooled down drastically ,  to the kinds of sub freezing temperatures we associate with it today .
SENTENCE now ,  most fish species couldn't survive in this frigid environment and they became extinct .
SENTENCE but that one notothenioid species ,  with its unique ability to produce that anti freeze protein ,  thrived .
SENTENCE it had virtually the entire southern ocean to itself !
SENTENCE so ?
SENTENCE well ,  there was little or no competition for food or space .
SENTENCE you might think of it as um as a a kind of ecological vacuum .
SENTENCE and the notothenioids exploited fully .
SENTENCE the species migrated into different habitats throughout the southern ocean .
SENTENCE and its population increased dramatically ,  with various sub populations migrating into different parts of the ocean .
SENTENCE over time these sub populations in all those different habitats well ,  they developed very different physical traits .
SENTENCE they adapted to survive in their particular ecological niche ,  their their position within a particular ecosystem .
SENTENCE we call this type of species diversification within a species adaptive radiation .
SENTENCE and what adaptive radiation is is  an evolutionary process by which a parent species rapidly undergoes changes resulting in various new species in order to fill multiple ecological niches .
SENTENCE so in the case of the notothenioids ,  that single species started colonizing empty habitats to such an extent that it evolved into a broad range of new species ,  the 9  or so notothenioid species that we have today .
SENTENCE so let me switch to adaptive radiation with regard to another species that's also been very successful .
QUESTION why does the professor mention that coral reefs support more than 4000 species of fish
OPTION to find out what students know about tropical fish 0
OPTION to contrast two types of ocean environments 1
OPTION to imply that there may be species in the southern ocean that have not been discovered yet 0
OPTION to imply that there may be fossil evidence of coral reefs in the southern ocean 0
