SENTENCE have you ever heard the one about alligators living in new york sewers ?
SENTENCE the story goes like this  a family went on vacation in florida and bought a couple of baby alligators as presents for their children ,  then returned from vacation to new york ,  bringing the alligators home with them as pets .
SENTENCE but the alligators would escape and find their way into the new york sewer system where they started reproducing ,  grew to huge sizes and now strike fear into sewer workers .
SENTENCE have you heard this story ?
SENTENCE well ,  it isn't true and it never happened .
SENTENCE but despite that ,  the story has been around since the 193's .
SENTENCE or how about the song  twinkle ,  twinkle little star  ,  you know ,   twinkle ,  twinkle ,  little star ,  how i wonder what you are  .
SENTENCE well we've all heard this song .
SENTENCE where am i going with this ?
SENTENCE well ,  both the song and the story are examples of memes .
SENTENCE and that's what we would talk about ,  the theory of memes .
SENTENCE a meme is defined as a piece of information copied from person to person .
SENTENCE by this definition ,  most of what you know ,  ideas ,  skills ,  stories ,  songs are memes .
SENTENCE all the words you know ,  all the scientific theories you've learned ,  the rules your parents taught you to observe ,  all are memes that have been passed on from person to person .
SENTENCE so what ?
SENTENCE you may say .
SENTENCE passing on ideas from one person to another is nothing new .
SENTENCE well ,  the whole point of defining this familiar process as transmission of memes is so that we can explore its analogy with the transmission of genes .
SENTENCE as you know ,  all living organisms pass on biological information through the genes .
SENTENCE what's a gene ?
SENTENCE a gene is a piece of biological information that gets copied or replicated ,  and the copy or replica is passed on to the new generation .
SENTENCE so genes are defined as replicators .
SENTENCE genes are replicators that pass on information about properties and characteristics of organisms .
SENTENCE by analogy ,  memes also get replicated and in the process pass on cultural information from person to person ,  generation to generation .
SENTENCE so memes are also replicators .
SENTENCE to be a successful replicator ,  there are three key characteristics  longevity ,  fecundity and fidelity .
SENTENCE let's take a closer look .
SENTENCE first ,  longevity .
SENTENCE a replicator must exist long enough to be able to get copied ,  and transfer its information .
SENTENCE clearly ,  the longer a replicator survives ,  the better its chances of getting its message copied and passed on .
SENTENCE so longevity is a key characteristic of a replicator .
SENTENCE if you take the alligator story ,  it can exist for a long time in individual memory ,  let's say ,  my memory .
SENTENCE i can tell you the story now or ten years from now ,  the same with the twinkle ,  twinkle song .
SENTENCE so these memes have longevity because they are memorable for one reason or another .
SENTENCE next ,  fecundity .
SENTENCE fecundity is the ability to reproduce in large numbers .
SENTENCE for example ,  the common housefly reproduces by laying several thousand eggs ,  so each fly gene gets copied thousands of times .
SENTENCE memes ,  well ,  they can be reproduced in large numbers as well .
SENTENCE how many times have you sung the twinkle ,  twinkle song  to someone ?
SENTENCE each time you replicated that song ,  and maybe passed it along to someone who did not know it yet ,  a small child maybe .
SENTENCE and finally ,  fidelity .
SENTENCE fidelity means accuracy of the copying process .
SENTENCE we know fidelity is an essential principle of genetic transmission .
SENTENCE if a copy of a gene is a bit different from the original ,  that's called a genetic mutation .
SENTENCE and mutations are usually bad news .
SENTENCE an organism often cannot survive with a mutated gene .
SENTENCE and so a gene usually cannot be passed on ,  unless it's an exact copy .
SENTENCE for memes however ,  fidelity is not always so important .
SENTENCE for example ,  if you tell someone the alligator story i told you today ,  it probably won't be word for word exactly as i said it .
SENTENCE still ,  it will be basically the same story ,  and the person who hears the story will be able to pass it along .
SENTENCE other memes are replicated with higher fidelity though ,  like the twinkle ,  twinkle song .
SENTENCE it had the exact same words 2  years ago as it does now .
SENTENCE well ,  that's because we see songs as something that has to be performed accurately each time .
SENTENCE if you change a word ,  the others will usually bring you in line .
SENTENCE they'll say ,   that's not how you sing it  ,  right ?
SENTENCE so ,  you can see how looking at pieces of cultural information as replicators ,  as memes ,  and analyzing them in terms of longevity ,  fecundity and fidelity ,  we can gain some insight about how they spread ,  persist or change  .
QUESTION what example does the professor give of a meme's longevity
OPTION a story has been changing since it first appeared in the 1930s 0
OPTION a person remembers a story for many years 1
OPTION a gene is passed on through many generations without changing 0
OPTION a song quickly becomes popular all over the world 0
