SENTENCE alright everybody ,  the topic for today is ,  well ,  we're gonna take a look at how to start creating the characters for the stories you're writing .
SENTENCE one way of doing that is to come up with what's called  a character sketch  ,  i don't mean a sketch like a drawing ,  i guess that's obvious .
SENTENCE it's um it's a a sketch is a way of getting started on defining your characters  personalities .
SENTENCE to begin ,  how do we create fictional characters ?
SENTENCE we don't just pull them from thin air ,  do we ?
SENTENCE i mean we don't create them out of nothing .
SENTENCE we base them ,  consciously or unconsciously ,  we base them on real people ,  or we blend several people's traits ,  their attributes into one character .
SENTENCE but when people think fiction ,  they may assume the characters come from the author's imagination .
SENTENCE but the writer's imagination is influenced by  by real people ,  could be anyone ,  so ,  pay attention to the people you meet ,  someone in class ,  at the gym ,  that guy who is always sitting in the corner at the coffee house ,  um  your cousin ,  who's always getting into dangerous situations .
SENTENCE we're pulling from reality ,  gathering bits and pieces of real people .
SENTENCE you use these people ,  and the bits of behavior or characteristics as a starting point as you begin to sketch out your characters .
SENTENCE here is what you should think about doing first .
SENTENCE when you begin to formulate a story ,  make a list of interesting people you know or have observed .
SENTENCE consider why they're unique or annoying .
SENTENCE then make notes about their unusual or dominant attributes .
SENTENCE as you create fictional characters ,  you'll almost always combine characteristics from several different people on your list to form the identity and personality of just one character .
SENTENCE keeping this kind of character sketch can help you solidify your character's personality ,  so that it remains consistent throughout your story .
SENTENCE you need to define your characters ,  know their personalities so that you can have them acting in ways that are predictable ,  consistent with their personalities .
SENTENCE get to know them like a friend ,  you know your friends well enough to know how they'll act in certain situations ,  right ?
SENTENCE say you have three friends ,  their car runs out of gas on the highway .
SENTENCE john gets upset .
SENTENCE mary remains calm .
SENTENCE teresa takes charge of handling the situation .
SENTENCE and let's say ,  both john and mary defer to her leadership .
SENTENCE they call you to explain what happen .
SENTENCE and when john tells you he got mad ,  you're not surprised ,  because he always gets frustrated when things go wrong .
SENTENCE then he tells you how teresa took charge ,  calmed him down ,  assigned tasks for each person and got them on their way .
SENTENCE again ,  you're not surprised .
SENTENCE it's exactly what you'd expect .
SENTENCE well ,  you need to know your characters ,  like you know your friends .
SENTENCE if you know a lot about a person's character ,  it's easy to predict how they'll behave .
SENTENCE so if your characters  personalities are well defined ,  it will be easy for you as the writer to portray them realistically er  believably ,  in any given situation .
SENTENCE while writing character sketches ,  do think about details .
SENTENCE ask yourself questions ,  even if you don't use the details in your story ,  um what does each character like to eat ,  what setting does each prefer ,  the mountains ,  the city ,  what about educational background ,  their reactions to success or defeat ,  write it all down .
SENTENCE but ,  here i need to warn you about a possible pitfall .
SENTENCE don't make your character into a stereotype .
SENTENCE remember the reader needs to know how your character is different from other people who might fall in the same category .
SENTENCE maybe your character loves the mountains and has lived in a remote area for years .
SENTENCE to make sure he is not a stereotype ,  ask yourself how he sees life differently from other people who live in that kind of setting .
SENTENCE be careful not to make him into the clich  of the  ragged mountain dweller  .
SENTENCE okay ,  now ,  i'll throw out a little terminology .
SENTENCE it's easy stuff .
SENTENCE major characters are sometimes called  round characters  .
SENTENCE minor characters are sometimes called ,  well ,  just the opposite ,   flat  .
SENTENCE a round character is fully developed  a flat character isn't ,  character development is fairly limited .
SENTENCE the flat character tends to serve mainly as a motivating factor .
SENTENCE for instance ,  you introduce a flat character who has experienced some sort of defeat .
SENTENCE and then your round ,  your main character who loves success and loves to show off ,  comes and boasts about succeeding and jokes about the flat character's defeat in front of others ,  humiliates the other guy .
SENTENCE the flat character is introduced solely for the purpose of allowing the round character to show off .
QUESTION the professor discusses an example of three friends who run out of gas , what point does he use the example to illustrate
OPTION writers should know their characters as well as they know their friends 1
OPTION writers should create characters that interact in complex ways 0
OPTION friends do not always behave the way we expect them to behave 0
OPTION friends'sbehavior is often more predictable than fictional characters'sbehavior 0
