SENTENCE so now that we've discussed how people in ancient societies tamed animals like cows and chickens for food and other uses .
SENTENCE i'd like to talk about an ancient culture that domesticated horses .
SENTENCE it's the botai people .
SENTENCE the botai culture thrived over 5 ,     years ago in central asia ,  in what is now northern kazakhstan .
SENTENCE pretty much all of what we know about the botai comes from three archaeological sites .
SENTENCE and we learned that the botai were able to build large perennial villages ,  sometimes with hundreds of homes .
SENTENCE we also found horse bones at these sites and these can be traced back to the time of the botai settlements .
SENTENCE the climate that the botai culture lived in it was harsh .
SENTENCE and the botai people they didn't really seem to have much in the way of agriculture going on .
SENTENCE so their whole economy was really based on horses .
SENTENCE and because horses can withstand the tough climate ,  they can survive ice storms and they don't need heated barns ,  the botai people could settle in one place and rely on the horses for food ,  clothing and transportation .
SENTENCE so the botai were the first to domesticate horses ?
SENTENCE well ,  we are pretty sure that horses were first domesticated a bit earlier ,  to the northwest ,  in the area that is now ukraine and western russia .
SENTENCE it's quite possible that some of those people later migrated east to kazakhstan .
SENTENCE but what exactly tells us that these botai people ,  that the horses in their area were really domesticated ?
SENTENCE as with most ancient history ,  there is not much that we can be certain about .
SENTENCE but we know there was a significant population of wild horses in that area .
SENTENCE so there were plenty of opportunities for the botai people to find horses to domesticate .
SENTENCE we also know that horse milk was an important source of food for the botai people .
SENTENCE what ?
SENTENCE milking a wild horse ?
SENTENCE well ,  now ,  that would be impossible to milk a wild horse .
SENTENCE and then  there's the oh .
SENTENCE yes ?
SENTENCE eric .
SENTENCE so you said last week that for some animals ,  like for dogs ,  there were physical changes taking place over the course of generations of dogs because of domestication .
SENTENCE so can we tell from those horse bones if it was sort of the same for horses ?
SENTENCE actually ,  it wasn't .
SENTENCE we know that horses have not changed a lot physically as a result of domestication .
SENTENCE so those ancient horse bones don't tell us much about domestication .
SENTENCE but we've found that um we've found what maybe pens or corrals in the botai settlements .
SENTENCE and not too long ago ,  a new approach was used to find out if the botai people were keeping horses .
SENTENCE soil samples from these pens or corrals show ten times the concentration of phosphorus .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE phosphorus is a very significant indicator that horses ,  large numbers of horses were being kept in the settlements .
SENTENCE you see ,  horse manure ,  horse waste is rich in phosphorus and also nitrogen compared to normal soil .
SENTENCE but nitrogen is an unstable element .
SENTENCE it can be washed out when it rains or it can be released to the atmosphere ,  whereas phosphorus combines with calcium and iron ,  and can be preserved in the soil for thousands of years .
SENTENCE the soil from the botai settlement sites was found to have high concentrations of phosphorus and low nitrogen concentrations ,  which is important since it suggests that what we've got is really old ,  not something added to the soil more recently .
SENTENCE wait .
SENTENCE so if horses have been there recently ,  there'd still be lots of nitrogen in the soil .
SENTENCE that's right .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE karen .
SENTENCE i just read an article .
SENTENCE it said that one way to determine if there was an ancient fireplace at an archaeological site was to check the soil for phosphorus .
SENTENCE so couldn't the phosphorus at the botai sites just be from the frequent use of fireplaces ?
SENTENCE you are absolutely right .
SENTENCE however ,  when a fireplace leaves behind a lot of phosphorus in the soil ,  we'd also find an unusually high concentration of potassium .
SENTENCE but the soil at the botai settlements ,  it was found with relatively little potassium ,  which makes it far more likely that the phosphorus came from horses .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE now ,  later on ,  people of the same region ,  northern kazakhstan ,  started raising sheep and cattle .
SENTENCE and that led to a more nomadic culture .
SENTENCE since sheep and cattle can't survive harsh climates ,  they needed to be taken south every winter .
SENTENCE moving around meant working harder but the trade off was far richer ,  fattier milk year round and warm clothing from the sheep .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about the people in ancient kazakhstan when they started raising sheep and cattle
OPTION they found a way to protect livestock from harsh weather without travelling to the southern region 0
OPTION they realized that a nomadic lifestyle offered benefits that outweighed the hard work 1
OPTION they had to leave the area due to a rapid increase in population 0
OPTION they learned that growing crops is possible in the southern region 0
