SENTENCE okay ,  we've been discussing films in the 192's and 3's ,  and how back then film categories ,  as we know them today ,  had not yet been established .
SENTENCE we said that by today's standards ,  many of the films of the 2's and 3's would be considered hybrids ,  that is ,  a mixture of styles that wouldn't exactly fit into any of today's categories .
SENTENCE and in that context ,  today we are going to talk about a film maker who began making very unique films in the late 192's .
SENTENCE he was french ,  and his name was jean painlev  .
SENTENCE jean painlev  was born in 19 2 .
SENTENCE he made his first film in 1928 .
SENTENCE now in a way ,  painlev 's films conform to norms of the 2's and 3's ,  that is ,  they don't fit very neatly into the categories we use to classify films today .
SENTENCE that said ,  even by the standards of the 2's and 3's ,  painlev 's films were a unique hybrid of styles .
SENTENCE he had a special way of fusing ,  or some people might say ,  confusing ,  science and fiction .
SENTENCE his films begin with facts ,  but then they become more and more fictional .
SENTENCE they gradually add more and more fictional elements .
SENTENCE in fact ,  painlev  was known for saying that science is fiction .
SENTENCE painlev  was a pioneer in underwater film making ,  and a lot of his short films focused on the aquatic animal world .
SENTENCE he liked to show small underwater creatures ,  displaying what seemed like familiar human characteristics   what we think of as unique to humans .
SENTENCE he might take a clip of a mollusk going up and down in the water and set it to music .
SENTENCE you know ,  to make it look as if the mollusk were dancing to the music like a human being   that sort of thing .
SENTENCE but then he suddenly changed the image or narration to remind us how different the animals are ,  how unlike humans .
SENTENCE he confused his audience in the way he portrayed the animals he filmed ,  mixing up our notions of the categories human and animal .
SENTENCE the films make us a little uncomfortable at times because we are uncertain about what we are seeing .
SENTENCE it gives him films an uncanny feature  the familiar made unfamiliar ,  the normal made suspicious .
SENTENCE he liked twists ,  he liked the unusual .
SENTENCE in fact ,  one of his favorite sea animals was the seahorse because with seahorses ,  it's the male that carries the eggs ,  and he thought that was great .
SENTENCE his first and most celebrated underwater film is about the seahorse .
SENTENCE susan ,  you have a question ?
SENTENCE but underwater film making wasn't that unusual ,  was it ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  weren't there other people making movies underwater ?
SENTENCE well ,  actually ,  it was pretty rare at that time .
SENTENCE i mean ,  we are talking the early 193's here .
SENTENCE but what about jacques cousteau ?
SENTENCE was he like an innovator ,  you know ,  with underwater photography too ?
SENTENCE ah ,  jacques cousteau .
SENTENCE well ,  painlev  and cousteau did both film underwater ,  and they were both innovators ,  so you are right in that sense .
SENTENCE but that's pretty much where the similarities end .
SENTENCE first of all ,  painlev  was about 2  years ahead of cousteau .
SENTENCE and cousteau's adventures were high tech ,  with lots of fancy equipment ,  whereas painlev  kind of patchedequipment together as he needed it .
SENTENCE cousteau usually filmed large animals ,  usually in the open sea ,  whereas painlev  generally filmed smaller animals ,  and he liked to film in shallow water .
SENTENCE uh ,  what else ?
SENTENCE oh well ,  the main difference was that cousteau simply investigated and presented the facts   he didn't mix in fiction .
SENTENCE he was a strict documentarist .
SENTENCE he set the standard really for the nature documentary .
SENTENCE painlev  ,  on the other hand ,  as we said before ,  mixed in elements of fiction .
SENTENCE and his films are much more artistic ,  incorporating music as an important element .
SENTENCE john ,  you have a question ?
SENTENCE well ,  maybe i shouldn't be asking this ,  but if painlev 's films are so special ,  so good ,  why haven't we ever heard of them ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  everyone's heard of jacques cousteau .
SENTENCE well ,  that's a fair question .
SENTENCE uh ,  the short answer is that painlev 's style just never caught on with the general public .
SENTENCE i mean ,  it probably goes back at least in part to what we mentioned earlier ,  that people didn't know what to make of his films   they were confused by them ,  whereas cousteau's documentaries were very straightforward ,  met people's expectations more than painlev 's films did .
SENTENCE but you true film history buffs know about him .
SENTENCE and painlev  is still highly respected in many circles .
QUESTION what is the main purpose of the lecture
OPTION to discuss the style of an early filmmaker 1
OPTION to describe different types of filmmaking in the 1930s 0
OPTION to discuss the emergence of the documentary film 0
OPTION to describe painleve's influence on today's science fiction films 0
