SENTENCE there's been a lot of talk recently about life on mars ,  at the level of microorganisms anyway ,  mainly because of a few important discoveries and inventions .
SENTENCE for example ,  one major discovery was that at one point water was present on mars .
SENTENCE how do we know ?
SENTENCE well ,  in 2  4 ,  an exploration robot discovered jarosite there .
SENTENCE jarosite is a yellowish brown mineral with a crystalline structure that's also found on earth .
SENTENCE it contains iron ,  potassium and hydroxide .
SENTENCE the interesting thing is that on earth at least it needs highly acidic water to form .
SENTENCE so we've got water or had it at one point .
SENTENCE and since most planetary scientists believe that water is essential to life ,  the presence of jarosite means that one prerequisite for life was once present on mars .
SENTENCE but there's another thing about jarosite .
SENTENCE one step in its formation on earth involves microorganisms  they actually speed up the formation of jarosite dramatically .
SENTENCE now ,  theoretically it is possible for jarosite to form without the help of biological life forms .
SENTENCE but we don't really know for sure if this happens  cause  well ,  because every corner of earth has some form of biological life .
SENTENCE but jarosite on earth incorporates all kinds of microorganisms into its crystalline structure .
SENTENCE so it's possible that if the jarosite on mars was also formed with the help of microorganisms ,  we might be able to detect remnants of them in the samples we find .
SENTENCE and we have instruments now that will enable us to try to do this .
SENTENCE for example ,  there's a new instrument called the microfabricated organic analyzer ,  or'm .
SENTENCE o .
SENTENCE a .
SENTENCE the organic analyzer is an amazing tool .
SENTENCE it will be able to collect soil samples and analyze them right there on mars ,  pure ,  untouched samples .
SENTENCE it will let us eliminate the risk we would take of contaminating the samples if they were brought back to earth .
SENTENCE and what they'll look for specifically in the soil is amino acids .
SENTENCE amino acids ,  as you may know ,  are the building blocks of proteins .
SENTENCE in fact ,  there are twenty standard amino acids involved in making proteins and lots more that aren't .
SENTENCE and here's the important thing .
SENTENCE amino acids are what we call handed .
SENTENCE they can exist in two forms ,  which are mirror images of each other like hands .
SENTENCE right and left hands have the same number of fingers in the same order plus one thumb .
SENTENCE but right and left hands are not the same  they are mirror images .
SENTENCE well ,  like hands ,  amino acids can be right or left handed .
SENTENCE and the twenty that make up the proteins on earth are all left handed .
SENTENCE now ,  one reason the'm .
SENTENCE o .
SENTENCE a .
SENTENCE ,  the organic analyzer is so impressive is that it tests not just for the presence of amino acids but also for the handedness of amino acids .
SENTENCE if amino acids are found ,  it would be especially interesting if they show a prevalence of one type of handedness ,  either left ,  like amino acids on earth ,  or right .
SENTENCE see ,  other physical processes in space ,  processes that don't involve living organisms ,  can create amino acids .
SENTENCE but the ones synthesized through abiotic processes ,  which is to say not involving microorganisms ,  occur in equal numbers of right  and left handed .
SENTENCE so ,  a prevalence of left handed amino acids would indicate they were biological in origin ,  which would be amazing !
SENTENCE a prevalence of right handed ones well ,  that would be really amazing !
SENTENCE because the organisms that created them would be unlike anything we have on earth ,  which produce only left handed ones .
QUESTION what would a prevalence of right handed amino acids in mineral samples collected on mars indicate
OPTION that amino acids on mars probably originated on earth 0
OPTION that amino acids existed on mars long before they existed on earth 0
OPTION that a type of microorganism may have existed on mars that is different from any on earth 1
OPTION that left handed amino acids are probably present in some minerals on mars 0
