SENTENCE so ,  amanda ,  you've asked a lot of questions about trade during the colonial period of the united states .
SENTENCE has our discussion clarified things for you ?
SENTENCE well ,  yeah ,  but now ,  i think writing about trade for my paper isn't going to work .
SENTENCE oh ,  so your questions about shipping routes were for your research paper ?
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE but now ,  i see that i probably need to come up with a new paper topic .
SENTENCE actually ,  there was one other idea i had .
SENTENCE i have been thinking about doing something about community planning in the early british settlements in eastern north america .
SENTENCE oh .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE i am curious .
SENTENCE why are you interested in doing something on community planning in colonial times ?
SENTENCE well ,  i am much more into architecture .
SENTENCE it's my major and i mean ,  planning out a town or city goes along with that .
SENTENCE i mean ,  not that i don't like history i am interested in history really interested but i think ,  you know ,  for a career ,  architecture is more for me .
SENTENCE that's great .
SENTENCE i've gotten some very thought provoking papers from students whose interests go beyond history .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE but for the paper you wanted us to try to include a comparison ,  right ?
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE actually ,  that was really the purpose of the assignment .
SENTENCE the way the united states developed or perhaps i should say the colonies ,  since the land that would become the eastern united states uh there were british colonies there four hundred years ago .
SENTENCE but anyway uh  development in the colonies differed greatly depending on geography .
SENTENCE i am looking for papers that have ideas about something that happened one way in the northern colonies happened a different way in the southern colonies .
SENTENCE is that true in terms of urban planning ?
SENTENCE very true .
SENTENCE towns in the northern colonies were centralized and compact .
SENTENCE they provided a meeting point for exchanging goods ,  for participatory government ,  and for practicing religion .
SENTENCE houses would be built along the roads that led into town .
SENTENCE and just outside the developed area ,  there would usually be an open area of some sort for grazing animals and also group activities .
SENTENCE actually ,  the model for planning a town in the northern colonies was not unlike the model for the development of towns in medieval europe .
SENTENCE after all ,  the colonists had just come from europe and the medieval period was just ended .
SENTENCE medieval europe .
SENTENCE but what about the south ?
SENTENCE if i remember correctly  in the south ,  at least initially ,  they didn't build towns so much as they built trading posts .
SENTENCE that's right .
SENTENCE most of the settlers in the north wanted to start a whole new life .
SENTENCE but most of the people who came from europe to the south just wanted to make some money and then go back .
SENTENCE it is not surprising that some of most common buildings were storage facilities and port facilities .
QUESTION what are the speakers mainly discussing
OPTION a point about southern settlements that the student did not understand 0
OPTION a problem with an assignment on colonial shipping routes 0
OPTION reasons why the student prefers to write a paper relates to architecture 0
OPTION an aspect of colonial settlements the student wants to research 1
