SENTENCE last week ,  we covered some arguments against going back to the moon .
SENTENCE but there are compelling reasons in favor of another moon landing too ,  um  not the least of which is trying to pinpoint the moon's age .
SENTENCE we could do this in theory by studying an enormous impact crater ,  known as the south pole aitken basin .
SENTENCE um it's located in the moon's south polar region .
SENTENCE but ,  since it's on the far side of the moon ,  it can only be seen from space .
SENTENCE here is an image of we'll call it the spa basin .
SENTENCE this color coated image of the spa basin ,  those aren't its actual colors obviously ,  this image is from the mid 9's ,  from the american spacecraft called clementine .
SENTENCE um  unlike earlier lunar missions ,  clementine didn't orbit only around the moon's equator .
SENTENCE its orbits enabled it to send back data to create this topographical map of   well ,  the grey and white area towards the bottom is the south pole ,  the purples and blues in the middle correspond to low elevations   the spa basin itself ,  the oranges and reds around it are higher elevations .
SENTENCE the basin measures an amazing 2 , 5   km in diameter ,  and its average depth is 12 km .
SENTENCE that makes it the biggest known crater in our solar system and it may well be the oldest .
SENTENCE you know planetary researchers love studying deep craters to learn about the impacts that created them ,  how they redistributed pieces of the planet's crust .
SENTENCE and in this case ,  we especially want to know if any of the mantle ,  the layer beneath the crust ,  was exposed by the impact .
SENTENCE not everyone agrees ,  but some experts are convinced that whatever created the spa basin did penetrate the moon's mantle .
SENTENCE and we need to find out ,  because much more than the crust ,  the mantle contains information about a planet's or moon's total composition .
SENTENCE and that's key to understanding planet formation .
SENTENCE um dian ?
SENTENCE so ,  the only way to know the basin's age is to study its rocks directly ?
SENTENCE well ,  from radio survey data ,  we know that the basin contains lots of smaller craters .
SENTENCE so it must be really old ,  about 4 billion years ,  give or take a few hundred million years .
SENTENCE but that's not very precise .
SENTENCE if we had rock samples to study ,  we'd know whether these small craters were formed by impacts during the final stages of planetary formation ,  or if they resulted from later meteor showers .
SENTENCE but if we know around how old the basin is ,  i'm not sure that's reason enough to go to the moon again .
SENTENCE no  ,  but such crude estimates um we can do better than that .
SENTENCE besides ,  there's other things worth investigating ,  like is there water ice on the moon ?
SENTENCE clementine's data indicated that the wall of the south polar crater was more reflective than expected .
SENTENCE so some experts think there's probably ice there .
SENTENCE also ,  data from a later mission indicates significant concentrations of hydrogen and by inference water less than a meter underground at both poles .
SENTENCE well ,  if there's water ,  how did it get there ?
SENTENCE underground rivers ?
SENTENCE we think meteors that crashed into the moon or tails of passing comets may have introduced water molecules .
SENTENCE any water molecules that found their way to the floors of craters near the moon's poles ,  that water would be perpetually frozen ,  because the floors of those craters are always in shadow .
SENTENCE um furthermore ,  if the water ice was mixed in with rock and dust ,  it would be protected from evaporation .
SENTENCE so are you saying there might be primitive life on the moon ?
SENTENCE that's not my point at all .
SENTENCE um  o .
SENTENCE k .
SENTENCE ,  say there is water ice on the moon .
SENTENCE that would be of very practical value for a future moon base for astronauts .
SENTENCE water ice could be melted and purified for drinking .
SENTENCE it could also be broken down into its component parts   oxygen and hydrogen .
SENTENCE oxygen could be used to breathe ,  and hydrogen could be turned into fuel ,  rocket fuel .
SENTENCE so water ice could enable the creation of a self sustaining moon base someday ,  a mining camp perhaps or a departure point for further space exploration .
SENTENCE but hauling tons of equipment to the moon to make fuel and build a life support system for a moon base ,  wouldn't that be too expensive ?
SENTENCE permanent base ,  maybe a ways off ,  but we shouldn't have to wait for that .
SENTENCE the dust at the bottom of the spa basin really does have a fascinating story to tell .
SENTENCE i wouldn't give for a few samples of it .
QUESTION why does the professor mention the moon's mantle
OPTION to explain why scientists believe that meteor impacts cannot affect the moon's mantle 0
OPTION to explain what kind of information scientists hope to obtain from the mantle 1
OPTION to point out that the moon's crust and mantle are made of similar materials 0
OPTION to point out that the moon's mantle and earth's mantle have different compositions 0
