SENTENCE hi ,  dennis .
SENTENCE you are right on time .
SENTENCE come on in and have a seat .
SENTENCE so like i told you in class ,  i just wanted to take a few minutes to meet with everyone to make sure your class presentations for next week are all in order and coming along well .
SENTENCE and as you know ,  you are supposed to report on some area of recent research in genetics ,  something you know original .
SENTENCE well ,  i think i found just the thing !
SENTENCE it actually occurred to me a couple nights ago while i was eating dinner in the cafeteria .
SENTENCE tell me professor ,  do you like broccoli ?
SENTENCE broccoli ?
SENTENCE you mean the vegetable broccoli ?
SENTENCE well ,  i guess not really .
SENTENCE me neither .
SENTENCE i have never liked it or most other vegetables for that matter brussels sprouts ,  asparagus ,  cauliflower you name it .
SENTENCE they just taste bitter and well nasty to me .
SENTENCE my mother always called me a picky eater .
SENTENCE and so i got to wondering  i mean ,  i am obviously not the only person like this .
SENTENCE so is this just because of some like trauma from our childhoods ?
SENTENCE some bad experience we've had with some vegetables ?
SENTENCE or could there be some genetic explanation for why some people are picky eaters and others aren t ?
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE i see .
SENTENCE well ,  i suppose it's a possibility .
SENTENCE actually ,  it turns out it's more than a possibility .
SENTENCE i started doing some research in the library that night and i found out that a biologist at the national institutes of health has been looking at that very question recently .
SENTENCE well ,  i guess that's not too surprising .
SENTENCE and this is great stuff actually .
SENTENCE so what's the verdict ?
SENTENCE well ,  this guy seems to have discovered a particular gene that actually makes it possible for people to taste the bitterness in certain green vegetables .
SENTENCE but people who have a mutation in that gene cannot taste the bitterness .
SENTENCE well that's certainly fascinating !
SENTENCE but so this biologist is basically claiming that people who like to eat these vegetables actually have some sort of sensory deficit ?
SENTENCE sort of makes us picky eaters than normal ones ,  doesn't it ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  that's kind of turning things on their head ,  isn't it ?
SENTENCE well then again ,  it wouldn't be the first time ,  would it ?
SENTENCE think of it this way  humans originally needed to have a stronger sensitivity to bitter tasting foods so they could learn what plants were good for them and which ones might be poisonous .
SENTENCE but at some point ,  as people figured out what they could safely eat ,  this need became less crucial and a segment of the population lost that ability .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE well ,  you make a compelling case .
SENTENCE i can't wait to hear more about this when you deliver your report .
QUESTION why does the professor meet with the student
OPTION to determine if the student has selected an appropriate topic for his class project 1
OPTION to find out if the student is interested in taking part in a genetics project 0
OPTION to discuss the student's experiment on taste perception 0
OPTION to explain what the student should focus on for his class presentation 0
