SENTENCE ok ,  so one of the challenges that faced ancient civilizations like egypt was timekeeping ,  calendars .
SENTENCE when you have to grow food for whole cities of people ,  it is important to plant your crops at the right time .
SENTENCE and when you start having financial obligations ,  rents ,  taxes ,  you have to keep track of how often you pay .
SENTENCE so today we will look at how the egyptians adressed these problems .
SENTENCE in fact ,  they ended up using two calendars ,  one to keep track of the natural world ,  or their agriculture concerns ,  and another one ,  that was used to keep track of the business functions of the kingdom .
SENTENCE so let's take a look at the hows and whys of one ancient egyptian calendar system ,  starting with the nile river .
SENTENCE why the nile ?
SENTENCE well ,  there's no other way to put it .
SENTENCE egyptian life basically revolved around the mysterious rise and fall of the river .
SENTENCE the success of their agriculture system depended upon them knowing when the river would change .
SENTENCE so ,  naturally ,  their first calendar was divided up into three seasons ,  each based on the river 's changes  inundation ,  subsidence and harvest .
SENTENCE the first season was the flooding ,  or inundation ,  when the nile valley was essentially submerged in water for a few months or so .
SENTENCE and afterwards during the season of subsidence ,  the water would subside ,  or recede ,  revealing a new layer of fertile black silt and allowing for the planting of various crops .
SENTENCE and finally the time of the year would arrive when the valley would produce crops ,  such as wheat ,  barley ,  fruit ,  all ready to harvest .
SENTENCE ok ,  so it was important to the ancient egyptians to know when their nile based seasons would occur ,  their way of life depended upon it .
SENTENCE now ,  the way they used to count time was based on the phases of the moon ,  which ,  regularly and predictably ,  goes through a cycle ,  starting with a new moon ,  then to a full moon ,  and back again to the new moon .
SENTENCE now this cycle wes then used to determine the length of their month .
SENTENCE so ,  um ,  one lunar cycle was one egyptian month ,  and about four of the months would constitute a season .
SENTENCE now ,  12 of these months was an approximately 354 day year .
SENTENCE so they had a 354 day agricultural calendar that was designed to help them determine when the nile would inunadate the land .
SENTENCE well ,  of course it had to be more complicated than that .
SENTENCE the average amount of time between floodings wasn't actually 354 days .
SENTENCE i mean ,  although it varies ,  the average was clearly longer than 354 days .
SENTENCE so how did they keep this short calendar in step with the actual flooding of the nile ?
SENTENCE well ,  their astronomers had discovered that at a certain time of year the brightest star ,  sirius ,  would disappear .
SENTENCE actually ,  it'd be hidden in the glare of the sun .
SENTENCE and then ,  a couple of months later ,  one morning in the eartern sky just before dawn ,  sirius would reappear .
SENTENCE and it happened regularly ,  about every 365 days .
SENTENCE even more significantly ,  the reappearance of sirius would occur around the same time as the nile's flooding .
SENTENCE and this annual event is called a heliacal rising4the heliacal rising was a fair indicator of when the nile would flood .
SENTENCE the next new moon ,  after the heliacal rising of sirius ,  which happened in the last month of the calendar year ,  marked the new year .
SENTENCE and because the ancient egyptians were using the lunar cycle in combination with this heliacal rising ,  some years ended up having 12 lunar months ,  while others had 13 lunar calender months ,  if sirius didn't rise in the 12th month .
SENTENCE even though the length of the agricultural calendar still fluctuated ,  with some years having 12 months and others having 13 ,  it ended up being much more reliable than it was before .
SENTENCE they continually adjusted it to the heliacal rising of sirius ,  ensuring that they never got too far off in their seasons .
SENTENCE this new calendar was ideal ,  because ,  well ,  it worked well for agricultural purposes as well as for knowing when to have traditional religious festivals .
SENTENCE so ,  that was their first calendar .
SENTENCE but was it any way to run a government ?
SENTENCE they didn't think so .
SENTENCE for administrative purposes ,  it was very inconvenient to have years of different lengths .
SENTENCE so another calendar was introduced ,  an administrative one .
SENTENCE probably soon after 3 ,     bc ,  they declared a 365 day year ,  with 12 months per year ,  with exactly 3  days each month ,  with an extra 5 days at the end of each year .
SENTENCE this administrative calendar existed alongside the earlier agricultural and religious calendar that depended on the heliacal rising of sirius .
SENTENCE this administrative calendar was much easier to use for things like scheduling taxes and other things that had to be paid on time .
SENTENCE over time ,  the calendar got out of step with seasons and the flooding of the nile ,  but for bureaucratic purposes ,  they didn't mind .
QUESTION what is the lecture mainly about
OPTION differences between modern and ancient calendars 0
OPTION the importance of astronomy in egyptian religion 0
OPTION the timekeeping system of ancient egypt 1
OPTION how to use agriculture as a method of timekeeping 0
