SENTENCE ok ,  the conventions or assumptions that govern conversation ,  these may vary from one culture to another  ,  but basically ,  for people to communicate ,  there is a    they have to follow certain rules .
SENTENCE like if i am talking with you and i start saying things that are not true ,  if you can't tell when i am lying and when i am telling the truth ,  well ,  we are not going to have a very satisfactory conversation ,  are we ?
SENTENCE why ?
SENTENCE because it violates one of the gricean maxims ,  that's a set of rules or maxims a philosopher name h .
SENTENCE p  .
SENTENCE grice came up with in 197's .
SENTENCE one of these gricean maxims is   well ,  i've already given you a hint .
SENTENCE oh ,  you just can't go around telling lies .
SENTENCE right ,  or as grice put it ,   do not say what you believe to be false .
SENTENCE that's one of grice's maxims of quality as he called it .
SENTENCE so that's pretty obvious .
SENTENCE but there are others just as important .
SENTENCE like ,  eh   suppose you would ask me what time it was and i replied  my sister just got married   ,  what would you think ?
SENTENCE you are not really answering my question .
SENTENCE no ,  i am not ,  am i ?
SENTENCE there is no connection at all ,  which feels wrong because you generally expect to find one .
SENTENCE so one important maxim is simply  be relevant .
SENTENCE and using the so called maxim of relevance we can infer things as well ,  or rather the speaker can imply things and the listener can make inferences .
SENTENCE for instance ,  suppose you say you would really love to have a cup of coffee right now ,  and i say  there's a shop around the corner   .
SENTENCE now ,  what can you infer from what i said ?
SENTENCE well ,  the shop sells coffee for one thing .
SENTENCE right ,  and that i believe it is open now .
SENTENCE because if i won't implying those things ,  my response would not be relevant .
SENTENCE it'd have no connection with what you said before .
SENTENCE but according to the maxim ,  my response should be relevant to your statement ,  meaning ,  we should assume some connection between the statement and the response .
SENTENCE and this maxim of relevance is quite efficient to use .
SENTENCE even if i don't spell out all the details ,  you can still make some useful logical inferences ,  namely ,  the shop is open and it sells coffee .
SENTENCE if we actually have to explain all these details ,  conversations would move along pretty slowly ,  wouldn't they ?
SENTENCE ok ,  then there's the maxims of manner ,  including things like be clear  ,  and avoid ambiguity .
SENTENCE and another more interesting maxims is one of the so called maxims of quantity ,  quantities of information ,  that is .
SENTENCE it says ,  to give as much as is required in the situation .
SENTENCE so suppose you asked me what i did yesterday and i say  i went to the art museum .
SENTENCE you would likely infer that i saw some works of art .
SENTENCE suppose ,  though ,  that i did not go inside the museum ,  i just walked up to it then left .
SENTENCE then i violated the quantity maxim by not giving enough information .
SENTENCE so you can see how important implications are to our ability to carry on a conversation .
SENTENCE but there are times when people will violate these maxims on purpose .
SENTENCE let's say a boss is asked to write a letter of recommendation for a former employee seeking an engineering job .
SENTENCE the letter he writes is quite brief .
SENTENCE something like ,  uh ,  mr.  x is polite and always dresses quite neatly .
SENTENCE so what does this really mean ?
SENTENCE oh ,  i see .
SENTENCE by not mentioning any important qualities related to the job ,  the boss is    like ,  implying that this is best that can be said about mr.  x that he is really not qualified .
SENTENCE exactly .
SENTENCE it's a written letter not a conversation ,  but the principle is the same .
SENTENCE the boss is conveying a negative impression of mr.  x without actually saying negative about him .
SENTENCE so ,  by violating the maxims ,  we   eh   but    it can be a way to be subtle or polite ,  or to convey humor through sarcasm or irony .
SENTENCE sometimes though people will violate maxims for another purpose  to deceive .
SENTENCE now ,  can you imagine who might do such a thing ?
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE anyone who may see an advantage in implying certain things that are untrue without explicitly saying something untrue .
SENTENCE they think ,  hey ,  don't blame us if our audience happens to draw inferences that are simply not true .
SENTENCE so next time you see an advertisement saying some product could be up to 2   more effective ,  think of these maxims of quantity and relevance ,  and ask yourself what inferences you are being led to draw .
SENTENCE think ,  more effective than what exactly ?
SENTENCE and why do they use those little phrases  could be  and  up to  ?
SENTENCE these claims give us a lot less information than they seem to .
QUESTION according to the professor , what helps speakers keep conversations from proceeding too slowly
OPTION the ability to make inferences according to the gricean maxims 1
OPTION the ability to effectively distinguish truth from falsehood 0
OPTION the willingness to acknowledge that a gricean maxim has been violated 0
OPTION the willingness to ignore the gricean maxims on occasion 0
