SENTENCE we know whales are mammals and that they evolved from land creatures .
SENTENCE so the mystery is figuring out how they became ocean dwellers .
SENTENCE because until recently there was no fossil record of what we call  the missing link   that is evidence of species that show the transition between land dwelling mammals and today's whales .
SENTENCE fortunately ,  some recent fossil discoveries have made the picture a little bit clearer .
SENTENCE for example ,  a few years back in pakistan ,  they found the skull of a wolf like creature .
SENTENCE it was about 5  million years old .
SENTENCE scientists had seen this wolf like creature before ,  but this skull was different .
SENTENCE the ear area of the skull had characteristics seen only in aquatic mammals ,  specifically whales .
SENTENCE uh ,  well ,  then also in pakistan they found a fossil of another creature ,  which we call ambulocetus natans .
SENTENCE that's a mouthful ,  eh ?
SENTENCE the name ambulocetus natans comes from latin of course ,  and means  walking whale that swims  .
SENTENCE it clearly had four limbs that could have been used for walking .
SENTENCE it also had a long thin tail ,  typical of mammals ,  something we don't see in today's whales .
SENTENCE but ,  it also had a long skeletal structure .
SENTENCE and that long skeletal structure suggests that it was aquatic .
SENTENCE and very recently in egypt ,  they found a skeleton of basilosaurus .
SENTENCE basilosaurus was a creature that we've already known about for over a hundred years .
SENTENCE and it has been linked to modern whales because of its long whale like body .
SENTENCE but this new fossil find showed a full set of leg bones ,  something we didn't have before .
SENTENCE the legs were too small to be useful .
SENTENCE they weren't even connected to its pelvis and couldn't have supported its weight .
SENTENCE but it clearly shows basilosaurus's evolution from land creatures .
SENTENCE so that's a giant step in the right direction .
SENTENCE even better ,  it establishes ambulocetus natans as a clear link between the wolf like creature and basilosaurus .
SENTENCE now these discoveries don't completely solve the mystery .
SENTENCE i mean ,  ambulocetus is a mammal that shows a sort of bridge between walking on land and swimming .
SENTENCE but it also is very different from the whales who know today .
SENTENCE so really we are working just a few pieces of a big puzzle .
SENTENCE um a related debate involved some recent dna studies .
SENTENCE remember ,  dna is the genetic code for any organism .
SENTENCE and when the dna from two different species is similar ,  it suggests that those two species are related .
SENTENCE and when we compared some whale dna with dna from some other species ,  we got quite a surprise .
SENTENCE the dna suggests that whales are descendants of the hippopotamus .
SENTENCE yes ,  the hippopotamus !
SENTENCE well ,  it came as a bit of a shock .
SENTENCE i mean ,  that a four legged land and river dweller could be the evolutionary source of a completely aquatic creature up to 25 times its size ?
SENTENCE unfortunately this revelation about the hippopotamus apparently contradicts the fossil record ,  which suggests that the hippopotamus is only a very distant relative of the whale ,  not an ancestor .
SENTENCE and of course as i mentioned ,  that whales are descended not from hippos but from that distant wolf like creatures .
SENTENCE so we have contradictory evidence .
SENTENCE and more research might just raise more questions and create more controversies .
SENTENCE at any rate ,  we have a choice .
SENTENCE we can believe the molecular data ,  the dna ,  or we can believe the skeleton trail ,  but unfortunately ,  not both .
SENTENCE um  and there have been some other interesting findings from dna research .
SENTENCE for a long time ,  we assumed that all whales that had teeth including sperm whales and killer whales were closely related to one another .
SENTENCE and the same for the toothless whales ,  like the blue whale and other baleen whales ,  we assumed that they be closely related .
SENTENCE but recent dna studies suggest that that's not the case at all .
SENTENCE the sperm whale is actually closely related to the baleen whale ,  and it's only distantly related to the toothed whales .
SENTENCE so that was a real surprise to all of us .
QUESTION according to the professor , what three aspects of the ambulocetus fossil make ambulocetus a likely bridge between land mammals and sea mammals
OPTION it had an elongated skeletal structure 1
OPTION it strongly resembled a modern hippopotamus 0
OPTION it had an unusually kind and thin tail for a whale 1
OPTION it had limbs that could have been used for walking 1
