SENTENCE before we get started ,  i  i just wanted to say i'm glad you chose food science for your major course of study .
SENTENCE yeah ,  it seems like a great industry to get involved with .
SENTENCE i mean with a four year degree in food science ,  i'll always be able to find a job .
SENTENCE you're absolutely right .
SENTENCE before entering academia ,  i worked as a scientist for several food manufacturers and for the us food and drug administration .
SENTENCE i even worked on a commercial fishing boat in alaska a couple of summers while i was an undergraduate .
SENTENCE we'd bring in the day's catch to a floating processor boat where the fish got cleaned ,  packaged and frozen right at sea .
SENTENCE that's amazing !
SENTENCE as a matter of fact ,  i'm sort of interested in food packaging .
SENTENCE well ,  for that ,  you'll need a strong background in physics ,  math and chemistry .
SENTENCE those are my best subjects .
SENTENCE for a long time ,  i was leaning towards getting my degree in engineering .
SENTENCE well ,  then you shouldn't have a problem .
SENTENCE uh ,  and fortunately ,  at this university ,  the department of food science offers a program in food packaging .
SENTENCE elsewhere ,  you might have to hammer courses together on your own .
SENTENCE i guess i luck out then .
SENTENCE i am  so since my appointment today is to discuss my term paper topic ,  i wanted to ask ,  could i write about food packaging ?
SENTENCE i realize we're supposed to research food born bacteria ,  but food packaging must play a role in all of that ,  right ?
SENTENCE absolutely !
SENTENCE maybe you should do some preliminary research on that .
SENTENCE i have !
SENTENCE that's the problem .
SENTENCE i'm overwhelmed .
SENTENCE well ,  in your reading ,  did anything interest you in particular ?
SENTENCE i mean something you'd like to investigate .
SENTENCE well ,  i was surprised about the different types of packaging used for milk .
SENTENCE you know ,  clear plastic bottles ,  opaque bottles ,  carton board containers    true !
SENTENCE in fact ,  the type of packaging has something to do with the way milk's treated against bacteria .
SENTENCE yeah ,  and i read a study that showed how light can give milk a funny flavor and decrease its nutritional value .
SENTENCE and yet most milk bottles are clear .
SENTENCE what's up about that ?
SENTENCE well consumers like being able to visually examine the color of the milk .
SENTENCE that might be one reason that opaque bottles haven't really caught on .
SENTENCE but that study   i'm sure there is more studies on the subject .
SENTENCE you shouldn't base your paper on only one study .
SENTENCE maybe i should write about those opaque plastic bottles .
SENTENCE find out if there is any scientific reasons they aren't used more widely ?
SENTENCE maybe opaque bottles aren't as good at keeping bacteria from growing in milk after the bottle has been opened for something  but where to begin researching this ?
SENTENCE i don't have a    you know ,  there is a dairy not far from here in chelsea .
SENTENCE it was one of the first diaries to bottle milk in opaque plastic ,  but now they're using clear plastic again .
SENTENCE and they're always very supportive of the university and our s ,  so if you wanted    yeah ,  i like that idea .
QUESTION why does the woman go to see the professor
OPTION to get advice on the topic of a term paper 1
OPTION to discuss different types of food packaging 0
OPTION to find out if the university will offer courses in food packaging 0
OPTION to ask about jobs in the food industry 0
