SENTENCE ok ,  the next kind of animal behavior i want to talk about might be familiar to you .
SENTENCE you may have seen ,  for example ,  a bird that's in the middle of a mating ritual ,  and suddenly it stops and preens ,  you know ,  it takes a few moments to straighten its feathers ,  and then returns to the mating ritual .
SENTENCE this kind of behavior ,  this doing something that seems completely out of place ,  is what we call a  displacement activity  .
SENTENCE displacement activities are activities that animals engage in when they have conflicting drives .
SENTENCE if we take our example from a minute ago ,  if the bird is afraid of its mate ,  it's conflicted .
SENTENCE it wants to mate but it's also afraid and wants to run away .
SENTENCE so ,  instead ,  it starts grooming itself .
SENTENCE so ,  the displacement activity ,  the grooming ,  the straightening of its feathers ,  seems to be an irrelevant behavior .
SENTENCE so ,  what do you think another example of a displacement activity might be ?
SENTENCE how about an animal that ,  um ,  instead of fighting its enemy or running away ,  it attacks a plant or a bush ?
SENTENCE that's really good suggestion ,  karl .
SENTENCE but that's called  redirecting  .
SENTENCE the animal is redirecting its behavior to another object ,  in this case ,  the plant or the bush .
SENTENCE but that's not an irrelevant or inappropriate behavior .
SENTENCE the behavior makes sense .
SENTENCE it's appropriate under the circumstances .
SENTENCE but what doesn't make sense is the object the behavior's directed towards .
SENTENCE ok ,  who else ?
SENTENCE carol ?
SENTENCE i think i read in another class about an experiment where an object that the animal was afraid of was put next to its food   next to the animal's food .
SENTENCE and the animal ,  it was conflicted between confronting the object and eating the food ,  so instead ,  it just fell asleep .
SENTENCE like that ?
SENTENCE that's exactly what i mean .
SENTENCE displacement occurs because the animal's got two conflicting drives   two competing urges ,  in this case ,  fear and hunger .
SENTENCE and what happens is ,  they inhibit each other ,  they cancel each other out in a way ,  and a third seemingly irrelevant behavior surfaces through a process that we call  disinhibition  .
SENTENCE now ,  in disinhibition ,  the basic idea is that two drives that seem to inhibit ,  to hold back ,  a third drive .
SENTENCE well ,  well ,  they're getting in a way of each other in a  in a conflict situation and somehow lose control ,  lose their inhibiting effect on that third behavior ,  which means that the third drive surfaces ,  it's expressed in the animal's behavior .
SENTENCE now ,  these displacement activities can include feeding ,  drinking ,  grooming ,  even sleeping .
SENTENCE these are what we call  comfort behavior  .
SENTENCE so why do you think displacement activities are so often comfort behaviors ,  such as grooming ?
SENTENCE maybe because it's easy for them to do ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  grooming is like one of the most accessible things an animal can do .
SENTENCE it's something they do all the time ,  and they have the stimulus right there on the outside of their bodies in order to do the grooming ,  or if food is right in front of them .
SENTENCE basically ,  they don't have to think very much about those behaviors .
SENTENCE professor ,  isn't it possible that animals groom because they've got messed up a little from fighting or mating ?
SENTENCE i mean if a bird's feathers get ruffled or an animal's fur ,  maybe it's not so strange for them to stop and tidy themselves up at that point .
SENTENCE that's another possible reason although it doesn't necessarily explain other behaviors such as eating ,  drinking or sleeping .
SENTENCE what's interesting is that studies have been done that suggest that the animal's environment may play a part in determining what kind of behavior it displays .
SENTENCE for example ,  there's a bird ,  the  wood thrush  ,  anyway ,  when the  wood thrush  is in an attack escape conflict ,  that is ,  it's caught between the two urges to escape from or to attack an enemy ,  if it's sitting on a horizontal branch ,  it'll wipe its beak on its perch .
SENTENCE if it's sitting on a vertical branch ,  it'll groom its breast feathers .
SENTENCE the immediate environment of the bird ,  its immediate ,  um ,  its relationship to its immediate environment seems to play a part in which behavior will display .
QUESTION what does the professor say about disinhibition
OPTION it can prevent displacement activities from occurring 0
OPTION it can cause animals to act on more than one drive at a time 0
OPTION it is not useful for explaining many types of displacement activities 0
OPTION it is responsible for the appearance of seemingly irrelevant behavior 1
