SENTENCE johnson ,  there is something that's been on my mind .
SENTENCE remember last week ,  you told us that it's really important to get our photography into a show ,  basically as soon as we can ?
SENTENCE yup ,  it's a big step ,  no question .
SENTENCE thing is ,  i am sitting here and i am just not sure how i'd get there .
SENTENCE i mean i've got some work i like ,  but is it really what a gallery is looking for ?
SENTENCE how would i know ,  how do i make the right contacts to get it into a show ,  i just really don't .
SENTENCE ok ,  hold on ,  slow down .
SENTENCE um these are questions that ,  well ,  just about every young artist has to struggle with .
SENTENCE ok ,  the first thing you should do is you absolutely have to stay true to your artistic vision  take the pictures you want to take .
SENTENCE don't start trying to catch the flavor the month and be trendy because you think you'll get into a show    that never works ,  because you wind up creating something you don't really believe in .
SENTENCE it's uninspired ,  and won't make any shows .
SENTENCE i've seen it happen so many times .
SENTENCE this doesn't mean that you should go into a cave .
SENTENCE keep up with trends ,  even think about how your work might fit in with them ,  but don't mindlessly follow them .
SENTENCE well ,  yeah ,  i can see that .
SENTENCE i think though i have always been able to stay pretty true to what i want to create ,  not what others want me to create .
SENTENCE i think that comes through in my work .
SENTENCE ok ,  just remember that is one thing to create work that you really want to create when it's in the classroom .
SENTENCE the only thing at stake is your grade .
SENTENCE but work created outside the classroom ?
SENTENCE that can be in different story .
SENTENCE i'm not talking about technique or things like that .
SENTENCE it's just that there is so much more at stake when you are out there making art for a living .
SENTENCE there's a lot of pressure to become something you are not ,  and people often surrender to that pressure .
SENTENCE well ,  you need to be a bit of an opportunist .
SENTENCE you know ,  common sense things like always having a sample of your work on hand to give to people .
SENTENCE you won't believe the kind of contacts and opportunities you can get in this way .
SENTENCE and try to get your work seen in the places like restaurants ,  bookstores ,  you'd be surprised how word gets around about photography in places like that .
SENTENCE ok it's just so hard to think about all of those practical things and make good work ,  you know .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about photography created outside of the classroom
OPTION it is usually technically stronger than work created for a class 0
OPTION it tends to be more interesting than class work 0
OPTION it faces increased pressure to be trendy 1
OPTION it is more likely to be exhibited than is work created for a class 0
