SENTENCE lecturer  so since we're on the topic of global climate change and its effects ,  in alaska ,  in the northern arctic part of alaska ,  over the last    oh   thirty years or so ,  temperatures have increased about half a degree celsius per decade ,  and scientists have noticed that there's been a change in surface vegetation during this time .
SENTENCE shrubs are increasing in the  tundra  .
SENTENCE tundra is flat land with very little vegetation .
SENTENCE just a few species of plants grow there because the temperature is very cold ,  and there's not much precipitation .
SENTENCE and because of the cold temperatures ,  the tundra has two layers  top layer ,  which is called the active layer ,  is frozen in the winter and spring ,  but thaws in the summer .
SENTENCE beneath this active layer is a second layer called  permafrost  ,  which is frozen all year around ,  and is impermeable to water .
SENTENCE female student  so because of the permafrost ,  none of the plants that grow there can have deep roots ,  can they ?
SENTENCE lecturer  no ,  and that's one of the reasons that shrubs survive in the arctic .
SENTENCE shrubs are little bushes .
SENTENCE they're not tall and being low to the ground protects them from the cold and wind .
SENTENCE and their roots don't grow very deep ,  so the permafrost doesn't interfere with their growth .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE now since the temperatures have been increasing in arctic alaska ,  the growth of shrubs has increased .
SENTENCE and this has presented climate scientists with a puzzle   male student  i'm sorry ,  when you say the growth of shrubs has increased ,  do you mean that the shrubs are bigger ,  or that there are more shrubs ?
SENTENCE lecturer  good question !
SENTENCE and the answer is both .
SENTENCE the size of the shrubs has increased and shrub cover has spread to what was previously shrub free tundra .
SENTENCE ok ,  so what's the puzzle ?
SENTENCE warmer temperatures should lead to increased vegetation growth ,  right ?
SENTENCE well ,  the connection is not so simple .
SENTENCE the temperature increase has occurred during the winter and spring ,  not during the summer .
SENTENCE but the increase in shrubs has occurred in the summer .
SENTENCE so how can increase temperatures in the winter and spring result in increased shrub growth in the summer ?
SENTENCE well ,  it may be biological processes that occur in the soil in the winter ,  that cause increased shrub growth in the summer ,  and here's how  there are  microbes  ,  microscopic organisms that live in the soil .
SENTENCE these microbes enable the soil to have more nitrogen ,  which plants need to live and they remain quite active during the winter .
SENTENCE there're two reasons for this  first ,  they live in the active layer ,  which ,  remember ,  contains water that doesn't penetrate the permafrost .
SENTENCE second ,  most of the precipitation in the arctic is in the form of snow .
SENTENCE and the snow ,  which blankets the ground in the winter ,  actually has an insulating effect on the soil beneath it .
SENTENCE and it allows the temperature of the soil to remain warm enough for microbes to remain active .
SENTENCE so there's been increased nutrient production in the winter .
SENTENCE and that's what's responsible for the growth of shrubs in the summer and their spread to new areas of the tundra .
SENTENCE areas with more new nutrients are the areas with the largest increase in shrubs .
SENTENCE female student  but ,  what about run off in the spring ,  when the snow finally melts ?
SENTENCE won't the nutrients get washed away ?
SENTENCE spring thaw always washes away soil ,  doesn't it ?
SENTENCE lecturer  well ,  much of the soil is usually still frozen during peak run off .
SENTENCE and the nutrients are deep down in the active layer anyway ,  not high up near the surface ,  which is the part of the active layer most affected by run off .
SENTENCE but as i was about to say ,  there's more to the story .
SENTENCE the tundra is windy ,  and the snow is blown across the tundra ,  it's caught by shrubs .
SENTENCE and deep snow drifts often form around shrubs .
SENTENCE and we've already mentioned the insulating effect of snow .
SENTENCE so that extra warmth means even more microbial activity ,  which means even more food for the shrubs ,  which means even more shrubs and more snow around etc   it's a circle ,  a loop .
SENTENCE and because of this loop ,  which is promoted by warmer temperatures in winter and spring ,  well ,  it looks like the tundra may be turning into shrub land .
SENTENCE female student  but will it be long term ?
SENTENCE i mean maybe the shrubs will be abundant for a few years ,  and then it'll change back to tundra .
SENTENCE lecturer  well ,  shrub expansion has occurred in other environments ,  like semiarid grassland ,  and tall grass prairies .
SENTENCE and shrub expansion in these environments does seem to persist ,  almost to the point of causing a shift .
SENTENCE once is established ,  shrub land thrives ,  particularly in the arctic ,  because arctic shrubs are good at taking advantage of increased nutrients in the soil ,  better than other arctic plants .
QUESTION why does the professor mention shrub expansion into other environments , such as semiarid grasslands
OPTION to suggest that new shrubland may not convert back to tundra 1
OPTION to explain ho9w shrubland can expand in warm climate 0
OPTION to cite a similarity between the types of shrubs in semiarid grassland and tundra environments 0
OPTION to explain how a biological loop can cause shrub expansion 0
