SENTENCE ok ,  let's get started .
SENTENCE great .
SENTENCE today i want to talk about a way in which we are able to determine how old a piece of land ,  or some other geologic feature is   dating techniques .
SENTENCE i'm going to talk about a particular dating technique .
SENTENCE why ?
SENTENCE good dating is key to good analysis .
SENTENCE in other words ,  if you want to know how a land formation was formed ,  the first thing you probably want to know is how old it is .
SENTENCE it's fundamental .
SENTENCE uh  take the grand canyon for instance .
SENTENCE now ,  we geologists thought we had a pretty good idea of how the grand canyon in the southwestern united states was formed .
SENTENCE we knew that it was formed from sandstone that solidified somewhere between 15  and 3   million years ago .
SENTENCE before it solidified ,  it was just regular sand .
SENTENCE essentially it was part of a vast desert .
SENTENCE and until just recently ,  most of us thought the sand had come from an ancient mountain range fairly close by that flattened out over time .
SENTENCE that's been the conventional wisdom among geologists for quite some time .
SENTENCE but now we've learned something different ,  and quite surprising ,  using a technique called uranium lead dating .
SENTENCE i should say that uranium lead dating has been around for quite a while .
SENTENCE but there have been some recent refinements .
SENTENCE i will get into this in a minute .
SENTENCE anyway ,  uranium lead dating has produced some surprises .
SENTENCE two geologists discovered that about half of the sand from the grand canyon was actually once part of the appalachian mountains .
SENTENCE that's really eye opening news ,  since the appalachian mountain range is ,  of course ,  thousands of kilometers to the east of the grand canyon .
SENTENCE sounds pretty unbelievable ,  right ?
SENTENCE of course ,  the obvious question is how did that sand end up so far west ?
SENTENCE the theory is that huge rivers and wind carried the sand west where it mixed in with the sand that was already there .
SENTENCE well ,  this was a pretty revolutionary finding .
SENTENCE um  and it was basically because of uranium lead dating .
SENTENCE why ?
SENTENCE well ,  as everyone in this class should know ,  we usually look at the grain type within sandstone ,  meaning the actual particles in the sandstone ,  to determine where it came from .
SENTENCE you can do other things too ,  like look at the wind or water that brought the grains to their location and figure out which way it was flowing .
SENTENCE but that's only useful up to a point ,  and that's not what these two geologists did .
SENTENCE uranium lead dating allowed them to go about it in an entirely different way .
SENTENCE what they did was  they looked at the grains of zircon in the sandstone .
SENTENCE zircon is a material that contains radioactive uranium ,  which makes it very useful for dating purposes .
SENTENCE zircon starts off as molten magma ,  the hot lava from volcanoes .
SENTENCE this magma then crystallizes .
SENTENCE and when zircon crystallizes ,  the uranium inside it begins to change into lead .
SENTENCE so if you measure the amount of lead in the zircon grain ,  you can figure out when the grain was formed .
SENTENCE after that ,  you can determine the age of zircon from different mountain ranges .
SENTENCE once you do that ,  you can compare the age of the zircon in the sandstone in your sample to the age of the zircon in the mountains .
SENTENCE if the age of the zircon matches the age of one of the mountain ranges ,  then it means the sandstone actually used to be part of that particular mountain range .
SENTENCE is everybody with me on that ?
SENTENCE good .
SENTENCE so ,  in this case ,  uranium lead dating was used to establish that half of the sandstone in the samples was formed at the same time the granite in the appalachian mountains was formed .
SENTENCE so because of this ,  this new way of doing uranium lead dating ,  we've been able to determine that one of our major assumptions about the grand canyon was wrong .
SENTENCE like i said before ,  uranium lead dating has been with us for a while .
SENTENCE but ,  um  until recently ,  in order to do it ,  you really had to study many individual grains .
SENTENCE and it took a long time before you got results .
SENTENCE it just wasn't very efficient .
SENTENCE and it wasn't very accurate .
SENTENCE but technical advances have cut down on the number of grains you have to study ,  so you get your results faster .
SENTENCE so i'll predict that uranium lead dating is going to become an increasingly popular dating method .
SENTENCE there are a few pretty exciting possibilities for uranium lead dating .
SENTENCE here is one that comes to mind .
SENTENCE you know the theory that earth's continents were once joined together and only split apart relatively recently ?
SENTENCE well ,  with uranium lead dating ,  we could prove that more conclusively .
SENTENCE if they show evidence of once having been joined ,  that could really tell us a lot about the early history of the planet's geology .
QUESTION according to the professor , what change has caused uranium lead dating to gain popularity recently
OPTION it can be performed outside a laboratory 0
OPTION it can now be done more efficiently 1
OPTION it no longer involves radioactive elements 0
OPTION it can be used in fields other than geology 0
