SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE let's continue our discussion about animal behavior by talking about decisions that animals face ,  complex ones .
SENTENCE animals ,  even insects ,  carry out what look like very complex decision making processes .
SENTENCE the question is how .
SENTENCE i mean no one really thinks that ,  say a bee goes through weighing the pros and cons of pollinating this flower or that flower .
SENTENCE but then how do animals solve complex questions ,  questions that seem to require decision making .
SENTENCE the answer we'll propose of course is that their behavior is largely a matter of natural selection .
SENTENCE as an example ,  let's look at foraging behavior among beavers .
SENTENCE beavers eat plants ,  mostly trees .
SENTENCE and they also use trees and tree branches to construct their homes in streams and lakes .
SENTENCE so when they do forage for food and for shelter materials ,  they have to leave their homes and go up on land where their main predators are .
SENTENCE so there are a number of choices that have to be made about foraging .
SENTENCE so for example ,  um   they need to decide what kind of tree they should cut down .
SENTENCE some trees have higher nutritional value than others ,  and some are better for building material ,  and some are good for both   um  aspen trees .
SENTENCE beavers peel off the bark to eat and they also use the branches for building their shelters .
SENTENCE so aspens do double duty .
SENTENCE but ash trees ,  beavers use ash trees only for construction .
SENTENCE another decision is when to forage for food .
SENTENCE should they go out during the daytime when it's hotter outside and they have to expend more energy ,  or at night when the weather is cooler but predators are more active ?
SENTENCE ok ,  but there are two more important issues ,  really the most central ,  the most important ,  ok ?
SENTENCE first ,  let's say a beaver could get the same amount of wood from a single large tree ,  one that has lots of branches ,  as it could get from three small trees .
SENTENCE which should it choose ?
SENTENCE if it chooses one large tree ,  it'll have to carry that large piece of wood back home ,  and lugging a big piece of wood 4  or 5  yards is hard work ,  takes a lot of energy .
SENTENCE of course it'll have to make only one trip to get the wood back to the water .
SENTENCE on the other hand ,  if it goes for three small trees instead ,  it will take less energy per tree to get the wood back home ,  but it'll have to make three trips back and forth for the three trees .
SENTENCE and presumably ,  the more often it wanders from home ,  the more it's likely to be exposed to predators .
SENTENCE so which is better ,  a single large tree or three small trees ?
SENTENCE another critical issue and it's related to the first ,  to the size issue ,  is how far from the water should it go to get trees .
SENTENCE should it be willing to travel a greater distance for a large tree ,  since it'll get so much wood from it ?
SENTENCE beavers certainly go farther from the water to get an aspen tree than for an ash tree .
SENTENCE that reflects their relative values .
SENTENCE but what about size ?
SENTENCE will it travel farther for a larger tree than it will for a smaller tree ?
SENTENCE now i would have thought the bigger thetree ,  the farther the beaver would be willing to travel for it .
SENTENCE that would make sense ,  right ?
SENTENCE if you're going to travel far ,  make the trip worth it buy bringing back most wood possible .
SENTENCE but actually ,  the opposite is true .
SENTENCE beavers will cut down only large trees that are close to the water .
SENTENCE they will travel far only to cut down certain small trees that they can cut down quickly and drag back home quickly .
SENTENCE generally ,  the farther they go from the water ,  the smaller the tree they will cut down .
SENTENCE they're willing to make more trips to haul back less wood ,  which carries a greater risk of being exposed to predators .
SENTENCE so it looks as though beavers are less interested in minimizing their exposure to predators and more interested in saving energy when foraging for wood ,  which may also explain why beavers forage primarily during the evenings .
SENTENCE ok ,  so why does their behavior indicate more of a concern with how much energy they expend than with being exposed to predators ?
SENTENCE no one believes a beaver consciously weighs the pros and cons of each of these elements .
SENTENCE the answer that some give is that their behavior has evolved over time .
SENTENCE it's been shaped by constraints over vast stretches of time ,  all of which comes down to the fact that the best foraging strategy for beavers isn't the one that yields the most food or wood .
SENTENCE it's the one that results in the most descendants ,  the most offspring .
SENTENCE so let's discuss how this idea works .
QUESTION what differences between aspen trees and ash trees does the professor point out
OPTION aspen trees are easier to transport 0
OPTION aspen trees provide better wood for construction 0
OPTION aspen trees provide less nutrition for beavers 0
OPTION aspen trees have more overall value to beavers 1
