SENTENCE hi ,  steve .
SENTENCE i scheduled this appointment  cause it has been a while since we touched base .
SENTENCE i know i have been really busy    a friend of mine works on the school paper .
SENTENCE he asks me if i would like to try reporting so i did and i really love it .
SENTENCE yeah  the first article i wrote ,  it was a profile of the chemistry professor   the one who was named teacher of the year .
SENTENCE my article ran on the front page .
SENTENCE when i saw my name ,  i mean my byline in print ,  i was hooked .
SENTENCE now i know this is what i want to do    be a reporter .
SENTENCE isn't it great to discover something that you really enjoy ?
SENTENCE and i read that the article too ?
SENTENCE it was very good .
SENTENCE to be honest ,  the article got lots of editing .
SENTENCE in fact i barely recognized a couple of paragraphs .
SENTENCE but the editor explained why the changes were made .
SENTENCE i learned a lot and my second article didn't need nearly as many changes .
SENTENCE sounds like you've got a real knack for this .
SENTENCE yeah  anyway ,  i am glad you scheduled this meeting  cause i want to change my major to journalism now .
SENTENCE um   the university doesn't offer a major in journalism .
SENTENCE i  i mean  should i transfer to another school ,  or major in english ?
SENTENCE well  wait a minute .
SENTENCE let me explain why the major isn't offered .
SENTENCE editors at newspaper  editors  i mean when you apply for a reporting job ,  editors look at two things    they want to see clips ,  you know ,  some of your published articles ,  they'll also want you to try out ,  they'll give you an assignment like  covering a press conference or some other event ,  then see if you can craft a story about it ,  accurately ,  on deadline .
SENTENCE so they don't even look at my major ?
SENTENCE it is not that they don't look at it  it is  well ,  having a degree in something other than journalism should actually work to your advantage .
SENTENCE most journalists specialize these days .
SENTENCE they only write about science or business or technology for example .
SENTENCE is there a type of reporting you think you may like to specialize in ?
SENTENCE well  i think it'd be really cool to cover the supreme court .
SENTENCE i mean  their decisionsthat is really a goal worth striving for .
SENTENCE so ,  why not continue major in political science ?
SENTENCE and as electives ,  you could take some pre law classes like constitutional law ,  and as for your work on the student newspaper ,  maybe they'd let you cover some local court cases    ones that students and professors here would want to read about .
SENTENCE i do .
SENTENCE actually ,  there is case involving this computer software program that one of our professors wrote .
SENTENCE the district court is deciding if the university is entitled to any of the professor's profits ?
SENTENCE wow  .
SENTENCE i will definitely follow up on that !
QUESTION why does the advisor discourage the student from transferring to another university
OPTION his current university is highly respected by newspaper editors 0
OPTION his current university will soon offer a major in journalism 0
OPTION he does not need to major in journalism in order to work as a reporter 1
OPTION he has a promising future on the staff of his current university's newspaper 0
