SENTENCE today we are going to do something a little different .
SENTENCE in the past few classes ,  we've listened to traditional music from around the world and we've talked about the characteristics of these music ,  what makes these styles distinctive ,  what kinds of instruments are used .
SENTENCE and you've talked about what sounds familiar to you and what sounds strange .
SENTENCE and many of you found some of what we've listened to very strange indeed .
SENTENCE well ,  today i want to start talking about western music and i am going to start in ancient greece .
SENTENCE but ,  now here's the part that's different .
SENTENCE we're not going to talk very much about the actual music .
SENTENCE instead ,  we are going to talk about what the greeks believed about music .
SENTENCE now ,  there are some very good reasons to approach the material in this way .
SENTENCE first ,  well ,  we don't have very much ancient greek music studied .
SENTENCE only about 45 pieces survived uh these are mostly records of poems and songs .
SENTENCE and we are not sure how well we can reproduce the melodies or rhythms ,  because they were apparently improvised in many cases .
SENTENCE so we really don't know all that much about what the music sounded like .
SENTENCE what we do know about   and this really is the most important reason i am approaching today's lecture the way i am   is the greek philosophy about music and its continuing influence on western attitudes toward music .
SENTENCE now ,  if we're going to understand the philosophy ,  we have to first understand that music for the greeks was about much more than entertainment .
SENTENCE yes ,  there was music at festivals and we have sculptures and paintings showing people listening to music for many of the same reasons that we do .
SENTENCE but this isn't the whole story .
SENTENCE the important thing about music was that it was governed by rules ,  mathematical rules .
SENTENCE and for those of you who are also studying music theory ,  you'll see that it is in fact highly mathematical .
SENTENCE um and for the greeks ,  the same mathematical principles that govern music also govern the universe as well as the human character ,  the essence of personality .
SENTENCE people's characters were believed to be very sensitive to music .
SENTENCE if you started playing around with the rules ,  you know ,  messing up the mathematical order ,  you could do serious harm .
SENTENCE that's why music was considered so powerful .
SENTENCE if you knew the rules ,  it could do great good .
SENTENCE but if you broke them ,  you could do great harm to the character of the listener .
SENTENCE so ,  we have this greek idea that music is directly related to human character and behavior .
SENTENCE the philosopher ,  plato ,  talks about this in the context of education .
SENTENCE for plato ,  music is an important element in education ,  but only the right kind of music .
SENTENCE that means the kind of music that builds the kind of character a good citizen or a future leader would need .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE for plato ,  there is a kind of music that instills the qualities of leadership ,  just as there is a kind of music that makes a person soft and weak .
SENTENCE now ,  plato has very specific ,  very conventional kinds of music in mind .
SENTENCE he is not fond of innovation .
SENTENCE there were musicians in plato's day who were experimenting with different melodies and rhythms .
SENTENCE a definite no no for plato .
SENTENCE he thinks that breaking with tradition leads to all sorts of social problems ,  serious problems ,  even the breakdown of the fabric of society .
SENTENCE i am thinking back now to when i first started listening to rock  n  roll and i remember my father saying it was a bad influence on us .
SENTENCE i think he would have gotten along well with plato .
SENTENCE anyway ,  i don't need to tell you what i think about plato's ideas about innovation ,  do i ?
SENTENCE though i have to say it's interesting that the same arguments against new music and art are still being made .
SENTENCE perhaps like the greeks ,  we recognize ,  and maybe even fear the power of music .
QUESTION according to the professor, what was plato's attitude toward music
OPTION music had the power to help create the future leaders of a society 1
OPTION music needed to be constantly evolving to keep up with social change 0
OPTION music distracted attention from social problems 0
OPTION music's primary purpose was entertainment 0
