SENTENCE we've been talking about the decline of coral reefs in tropical areas all over the world um  how natural and man made stresses are causing them to degrade ,  and in some cases ,  to die .
SENTENCE so now let's focus on a specific example of a natural predator that can cause a lot of damage to coral reefs the crown of thorns ,  or cot starfish .
SENTENCE the cot starfish is found on coral reefs in the tropical pacific ocean and it eats coral .
SENTENCE now ,  in small numbers ,  the starfish don't affect coral reefs dramatically .
SENTENCE but periodically ,  starfish population explodes .
SENTENCE and when that happens ,  the reefs can become badly damaged or even destroyed ,  something we are trying very hard to prevent .
SENTENCE for example ,  during the 196's ,  there was an outbreak of cot starfish in the great barrier reef ,  off the east coast of australia .
SENTENCE luckily ,  the cot starfish population gradually declined on its own and the reefs recovered .
SENTENCE but we were left wondering   what cause the population to increase so suddenly ?
SENTENCE well ,  over the years ,  we've come up with a few hypotheses .
SENTENCE all still hotly debated .
SENTENCE one hypothesis is that it's a natural phenomenon ,  that the starfish naturally undergo population fluctuations following particularly good spawning years .
SENTENCE there are also several hypotheses that suggest some sort of human activities are partly responsible ,  like fishing .
SENTENCE there are fish and snails that eat starfish ,  particularly the giant triton snail ,  which is the main predator of the starfish .
SENTENCE these fish and snails have themselves experienced a decline in population because of overfishing by humans .
SENTENCE so with a decline in starfish predators ,  the starfish population can increase .
SENTENCE another hypothesized human related cause is fertilizer runoff .
SENTENCE people use fertilizer for their crops and plants and a lot of it eventually makes its way from land into the seas .
SENTENCE it's fertilizer ,  so it has a lot of nutrients .
SENTENCE these nutrients have an effect on the starfish ,  because they cause an increase in the growth of phytoplankton .
SENTENCE phytoplankton are microscopic plants that grow in the ocean .
SENTENCE larval cot starfish eat phytoplankton in their first month of life ,  so more fertilizer in the ocean means more phytoplankton ,  which means more starfish ,  bad for the reefs .
SENTENCE now ,  the final hypothesis has to do with storm events .
SENTENCE if some reefs are destroyed by storms ,  starfish populations that inhabited those reefs would have to condense and concentrate on the reefs that are left .
SENTENCE so this can cause a kind of mass feeding frenzy .
SENTENCE so we have ideas ,  but no real answer .
SENTENCE and because we aren't sure of the causes for starfish population increases ,  it's difficult to prevent them .
SENTENCE i mean ,  some progress has been made .
SENTENCE for example ,  new survey techniques have enabled us to detect population increases when the starfish are quite young ,  so we can be ready for them .
SENTENCE but meaningful progress requires much better evidence about the cause .
SENTENCE on the bright side ,  in all the research being done on causes ,  we have discovered something related to how starfish populations might affect coral reef diversity .
SENTENCE we think that when reefs are damaged ,  after a few years ,  the fastest growing corals repopulate the areas .
SENTENCE and these fast growing species can grow over the slower growing species of coral ,  denying them light and preventing them from recovery .
SENTENCE however ,  the faster growing species are the preferred food of the cot starfish .
SENTENCE so when an outbreak of cot starfish occurs ,  they thin out the fast growing coral and may give the slower ones a chance to reestablish .
SENTENCE so without the outbreak ,  the diversity of coral would be reduced .
QUESTION what does the professor say about controlling the cot starfish population
OPTION it will be possible only after the causes of starfish population changes are better understood 1
OPTION recent discoveries about cot starfish have made controlling its population easier 0
OPTION enforcing measures to limit runoff should be sufficient to control the starfish population 0
OPTION monitoring populations of young starfish will probably not be useful 0
