SENTENCE when land gets developed for human use ,  the landscape changes .
SENTENCE we don't see as many types of vegetation ,  trees ,  grasses and so forth .
SENTENCE this in turn leads to other losses  the loss of animals that once lived there .
SENTENCE err but these are the obvious changes ,  but there are also less obvious changes like the climate .
SENTENCE one interesting case of this uh of changes in the local land use causing changes in climate ,  specifically the temperature is in florida .
SENTENCE now what comes to mind when you think of the state of florida ?
SENTENCE yes ,  exactly .
SENTENCE florida has long had a great citrus industry  large growth of oranges ,  lemons and the like .
SENTENCE florida's winter is very mild  the temperature doesn't often get below freezing .
SENTENCE but there are some areas of florida that do freeze .
SENTENCE so in the early 19 's ,  farmers moved even further south in florida ,  to areas that were even less likely to freeze .
SENTENCE obviously ,  freezing temperatures are a danger to the crops .
SENTENCE a bad bout of cold weather ,  a long spell of frosts could ruin a farmer's entire crop ,  anyway ,  before the citrus growers moved south ,  much of the land in south florida ,  was what we called wetlands .
SENTENCE wetlands are areas of marshy ,  swampy land ,  areas where water covers the soil ,  or is present either at or near the surface of the soil for a large part of the year .
SENTENCE wetlands have their own unique ecosystems ,  with plants and animals with special and interesting adaptations .
SENTENCE very exciting ,  but it's not what we are talking about today .
SENTENCE emm where was i ?
SENTENCE oh ,  yes .
SENTENCE farmers moved south .
SENTENCE but the land was not suitable for farming .
SENTENCE you can't grow oranges in wetlands ,  so farmers had to transform the wetlands into land suitable for farming .
SENTENCE to do that ,  you have to drain the water from the land ,  move the water elsewhere ,  and divert the water sources such as rivers .
SENTENCE hundreds of miles of drainage canals were built in the wetlands .
SENTENCE now these areas ,  the new areas the farmers moved to ,  used to be warm and unlikely to freeze ,  however ,  recently the area has become susceptible to freezes .
SENTENCE and we are trying to understand why .
SENTENCE is it some global temperature change or weather pattern like el ni o or something ?
SENTENCE well ,  there are two theories .
SENTENCE one idea is as you suggest that major weather patterns ,  something like el ni o ,  are responsible .
SENTENCE but the other idea and this is the one that i personally subscribe to ,  is that the changes in the temperature pattern have been brought about by the loss of the wetlands .
SENTENCE well ,  how would loss of wetlands make a difference ?
SENTENCE well ,  think about what we've been studying so far .
SENTENCE we've discussed the impact of landscapes on temperature ,  right ?
SENTENCE what effects does a body of water have on an area ?
SENTENCE oh ,  yeah .
SENTENCE bodies of water tend to absorb the heat during the day ,  and then they release the heat at night .
SENTENCE yes ,  exactly .
SENTENCE what you just said is what i want you all to understand .
SENTENCE bodies of water release heat and moisture back into the environment .
SENTENCE so places near large bodies of water are generally milder ,  err  slightly warmer than those without water .
SENTENCE and what i and others think is that the loss of the wetlands has created a situation where the local temperatures in the area are now slightly different ,  slightly colder than they were 1   years ago ,  before the wetlands were drained .
SENTENCE hmm do we know what the temperature was like back then ?
SENTENCE well ,  we were able to estimate this .
SENTENCE we have data about south florida's current landscape ,  uh the plant cover .
SENTENCE and we were able to reconstruct data about its landscape prior to 19   .
SENTENCE then we enter those data ,  information about what the landscape look like before and after the wetlands were drained .
SENTENCE we enter the data into a computer weather model .
SENTENCE this model can predict temperatures .
SENTENCE and when all of the data were entered ,  an overall cooling trend was predicted by the model .
SENTENCE how much colder does it get now ?
SENTENCE well ,  actually the model shows a drop of only a few degrees celsius .
SENTENCE but this is enough to cause dramatic damage to crops .
SENTENCE if temperatures overnight are already very close to the freezing point ,  then this drop of just a few degrees can take the temperature below freezing .
SENTENCE and freezing causes frosts ,  which kill crops .
SENTENCE these damaging frosts wouldn't happen if the wetlands were still in existence ,  just a tiny temperature difference can have major consequences .
QUESTION what is the lecture mainly about
OPTION the effect of the decrease in temperatures on wetlands 0
OPTION the use of computer models to analyze temperature patterns 0
OPTION the theory that land development affected the climate of south florida 1
OPTION the importance of the citrus industry to the south florida economy 0
