SENTENCE now we've got a few minutes before we leave for today .
SENTENCE so i'll just touch on an interesting subject that i think makes an important point .
SENTENCE we've been covering rocks and different types of rocks for the last several weeks .
SENTENCE but next week we are going to do something a bit different .
SENTENCE and to get started i thought i'd mention something that shows how uh as a geologist ,  you need to know about more than just rocks and the structure of solid matter .
SENTENCE moving rocks ,  you may have heard about them .
SENTENCE it's quite a mystery .
SENTENCE death valley is this desert plain ,  a dry lake bed in california surrounded by mountains and on the desert floor these huge rocks ,  some of them hundreds of pounds .
SENTENCE and they move .
SENTENCE they leave long trails behind them ,  tracks you might say as they move from one point to another .
SENTENCE but nobody has been able to figure out how they are moving because no one has ever seen it happen .
SENTENCE now there are a lot of theories ,  but all we know for sure is that people aren't  moving the rocks .
SENTENCE there are no footprints ,  no type tracks and no heavy machinery like a bulldozer uh ,  nothing was ever brought in to move these heavy rocks .
SENTENCE so what's going on ?
SENTENCE theory no .
SENTENCE 1    wind .
SENTENCE some researchers think powerful uh windstorms might move the rocks .
SENTENCE most of the rocks move in the same direction as the dominant wind pattern from southwest to northeast .
SENTENCE but some ,  and this is interesting ,  move straight west while some zigzag or even move in large circles .
SENTENCE hmm how can that be ?
SENTENCE how about wind combined with rain ?
SENTENCE the ground of this desert is made of clay .
SENTENCE it's a desert ,  so it's dry .
SENTENCE but when there is the occasional rain ,  the clay ground becomes extremely slippery .
SENTENCE it's hard for anyone to stand on ,  walk on .
SENTENCE some scientists theorized that perhaps when the ground is slippery the high winds can then move the rocks .
SENTENCE there's a problem with this theory .
SENTENCE one team of scientists flooded an area of the desert with water ,  then try to establish how much wind force would be necessary to move the rocks .
SENTENCE and get this  you need winds of at least five hundred miles an hour to move just the smallest rocks !
SENTENCE and winds that strong have never been recorded .
SENTENCE ever !
SENTENCE not on this planet .
SENTENCE so i think it's safe to say that that issues has been settled .
SENTENCE here is another possibility   ice .
SENTENCE it's possible that rain on the desert floor could turn to thin sheets of ice when temperatures drop at night .
SENTENCE so if rocks uh become embedded in ice ,  uh   ok ,  could a piece of ice with rocks in it be pushed around by the wind ?
SENTENCE but there's a problem with this theory ,  too .
SENTENCE rocks trapped in ice together would have moved together when the ice moved .
SENTENCE but that doesn't always happen .
SENTENCE the rocks seem to take separate routes .
SENTENCE there are a few other theories .
SENTENCE maybe the ground vibrates ,  or maybe the ground itself is shifting ,  tilting .
SENTENCE maybe the rocks are moved by a magnetic force .
SENTENCE but sadly all these ideas have been eliminated as possibilities .
SENTENCE there's just no evidence .
SENTENCE i bet you are saying to yourself well ,  why don't scientists just set up video cameras to record what actually happens ?
SENTENCE thing is ,  this is a protected wilderness area .
SENTENCE so by law that type of research isn't allowed .
SENTENCE besides ,  in powerful windstorms ,  sensitive camera equipment would be destroyed .
SENTENCE so why can't researchers just live there for a while until they observe the rocks moving ?
SENTENCE same reason .
SENTENCE so where are we now ?
SENTENCE well ,  right now we still don't have any answers .
SENTENCE so all this leads back to my main point   you need to know about more than just rocks as geologists .
SENTENCE the researchers studying moving rocks ,  well ,  they combine their knowledge of rocks with knowledge of wind ,  ice and such uh not successfully ,  not yet .
SENTENCE but you know ,  they wouldn't even have been able to get started without um  earth science understanding   knowledge about wind ,  storms ,  you know ,  meteorology .
SENTENCE you need to understand physics .
SENTENCE so for several weeks like i said we'll be addressing geology from a wider perspective .
SENTENCE i guess that's all for today .
SENTENCE see you next time .
QUESTION what is the professor's purpose in telling the students about moving rocks
OPTION to teach a lesson about the structure of solid matter 0
OPTION to share a recent advance in geology 0
OPTION to give an example of how ice can move rocks 0
OPTION to show how geologists need to combine information from several fields 1
