SENTENCE so ,  richard   what's up ?
SENTENCE well ,  i know we have a test coming up on chapters .
SENTENCE chapters 3 and 4 from your textbook .
SENTENCE right ,  3 and 4 ,  well ,  i didn't get something you said in class monday .
SENTENCE alright .
SENTENCE do you remember what it was about ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  you were talking about a gym   a health club where people can go to exercise ,  that kind of thing .
SENTENCE ok ,  but the health club model is actually from chapter 5 .
SENTENCE so  oh ,  chapter 5 ?
SENTENCE oh so it not   ok but i guess i still want to try to understand   of course ,  well ,  i was talking about an issue in strategic marketing ,  the healthy club model  i mean with a health club you might think they would have trouble attracting customers right ?
SENTENCE well ,  i know when i pass by a healthy club and i see all those people working out ,  they're exercising ,  i just as soon walk on by .
SENTENCE yes ,  there is that .
SENTENCE plus ,  lots of people have exercise equipment at home ,  or they can play sports with their friends .
SENTENCE right ?
SENTENCE but nowadays in spite of all that ,  and expensive membership fees ,  health clubs are hugely popular ,  so how come ?
SENTENCE i guess that is what i didn't understand .
SENTENCE ok ,  basically they have to offer things that most people can't find anywhere else ,  you know quality ,  that means better exercise equipment ,  high end stuff ,  and classes   exercise classes ,  maybe aerobics .
SENTENCE i am not sure if i ok i get it .
SENTENCE and you know another thing is i think people probably feel good about themselves when they are at the gym .
SENTENCE and they can meet new people ,  socialize .
SENTENCE right ,  so health clubs offer high quality facilities .
SENTENCE and also they sell an image about people having more fun ,  relating better to others and improving their own lives if they become members .
SENTENCE well ,  then ,  can you think of another business or organization that could benefit from doing this ?
SENTENCE think about an important building on campus here ,  something everyone uses ,  a major source of information ?
SENTENCE you mean like an administrative building ?
SENTENCE well ,  that is not what i had in my mind .
SENTENCE exactly .
SENTENCE libraries ,  imagine publish libraries  they're an information resource for the whole community right ?
SENTENCE well they can be ,  but now with the internet and big book stores ,  you can probably get what you need without going to a library .
SENTENCE that's true .
SENTENCE so if you were the director of a public library ,  what would you do about that ?
SENTENCE to get more people to stop in ,  well ,  like you said ,  better equipment ,  maybe a super fast internet connection ,  and not just a good variety of books but also like nice and comfortable areas where people can read and do research .
SENTENCE things that make them want to come to the library and stay .
SENTENCE oh ,  and maybe have authors come and do some readings or    i don't know ,  special presentations .
SENTENCE something people couldn't get at home .
SENTENCE now ,  you are getting it .
SENTENCE thanks ,   wilkins ,  i think too .
QUESTION what is the conversation mainly about
OPTION preparing for a test 0
OPTION a strategy for attracting customers 1
OPTION business opportunities in the field of health 0
OPTION differences between two business models 0
