SENTENCE hi samantha ,  how did your track meet go ?
SENTENCE great !
SENTENCE i placed first in one race and third in another .
SENTENCE congratulations  !
SENTENCE you must practice a lot .
SENTENCE three times a week pre season ,  but now that we're competing every weekend ,  we practice 6 days a week from 3 3  till 5    .
SENTENCE athletics place a heavy demand on your time ,  don  't they ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  but i really love competing ,  so  you know i played soccer in college and my biggest challenge ,  and i didn  't always succeed ,  was getting my studying in during soccer season .
SENTENCE are you having a similar  no ,  i   i really do make time to study .
SENTENCE and i actually study more for this class than i do for all my other classes .
SENTENCE but i didn  't see the grade i expected on my mid term exam ,  which is why i came by .
SENTENCE well ,  you didn't do badly on the exam ,  but i agree it did not reflect your potential .
SENTENCE i say this because your work on the lab project was exemplary .
SENTENCE i was so impressed with the way you handle the microscope and the samples of onion cells ,  and with how carefully you observed and diagramed and interpreted each stage of cell division .
SENTENCE and i don't think you could have done that if you hadn't read and understood the chapter .
SENTENCE i mean it seemed like you really had a good understanding of it .
SENTENCE i thought so too ,  but i missed some questions about cell division on thei just sort of blanked out ,  i guess .
SENTENCE i had a hard time remembering details .
SENTENCE alright ,  let's back up .
SENTENCE you say you studied ,  where ,  at home ?
SENTENCE at my kitchen table actually .
SENTENCE and that's supposed to be a quiet environment ?
SENTENCE not exactly .
SENTENCE my brother and parents try to keep it down when i am studying ,  but the phone pretty much rings off the hook ,  so  so you might try a place with fewer distractions ,  like the library  but the library closes at mid night ,  and i like to study all night before a test ,  you know ,  so everything is fresh in my mind .
SENTENCE i studied six straight hours the night before the mid term exam  .
SENTENCE that  's why i expected to do so much better .
SENTENCE oh ok .
SENTENCE you know that studying six consecutive hours is not equivalent to studying one hour a day for six days .
SENTENCE no .
SENTENCE there is research that shows that after about an hour of intense focus ,  your brain needs a break .
SENTENCE it needs to ,  you know ,  shift gears a little .
SENTENCE your brain's ability to absorb information starts to decline after about the first hour .
SENTENCE so if you are dealing with a lot of new concepts and vocabulary ,  anyway ,  if you just review your notes ,  even 2  minutes a day ,  it'd be much better than waiting until the night before an exam to try and absorb all those details .
SENTENCE oh ,  i didn't realize .
SENTENCE think of your brain as a muscle .
SENTENCE if you didn't practice regularly with your track team ,  and then tried to squeeze in three weeks worth of running practice the day before a track meet ,  how well do you think you'd perform in your races ?
QUESTION what does the professor imply when he mentions his experience playing soccer in college
OPTION the woman should participate in a sport that takes less of her time 0
OPTION the woman may not have enough time to study for her class 1
OPTION the woman is not trying hard enough to do well in the class 0
OPTION the woman should be satisfied with the results of her exam 0
