SENTENCE i'd like to take you back about 11 thousand years ago when earth entered the latest interglacial period .
SENTENCE interglacial periods are ,  typically periods of time between ice ages ,  when the climate warms ,  and the glacial ice retreats for a time ,  before things cool off again and another ice age begins .
SENTENCE and for over the past several million years ,  earth's sort of default climate has actually been ice age ,  but we have experienced periodic regular thaws ,  and the last one ,  the one we are in now ,  started about 11 thousand years ago .
SENTENCE now ,  the typical pattern for an interglacial period ,  and we have studied several ,  is that the concentration of carbon dioxide and methane gas actually reaches it   its peak ,  that is ,  there is the most carbon dioxide and methane gas ,  uh ,  greenhouse gases in the atmosphere just after the beginning of the interglacial period .
SENTENCE and then ,  for reasons which are not entirely clear  ,  the concentration of greenhouse gases gradually goes down .
SENTENCE now ,  the climate continues to warm for a while because there is a lag effect .
SENTENCE but uh ,  gradually as the concentration of greenhouse gases goes down ,  earth starts to cool again ,  and eventually you slip back into an ice age .
SENTENCE um ,  however  ,  for the latest interglacial period ,  the one we are in now ,  this pattern did not hold ,  that is ,  the concentration of carbon dioxide and methane dipped1 a little bit after ,  uh ,  uh ,  after peaking at the beginning ,  near the beginning of the interglacial period ,  but then it began to rise again .
SENTENCE um    what was different about this interglacial period than the other ones ?
SENTENCE well ,  one of the big differences is human activity .
SENTENCE people began to raise crops and animals for food instead of hunting for them .
SENTENCE this is the agricultural revolution .
SENTENCE and it began to happen in the earliest stages about 11 thousand years ago .
SENTENCE now ,  scientists have tended to regard    the    uh    agricultural revolution as a beneficiary of the    uh    fortuitous shift in climate .
SENTENCE however  ,  some new theories of climate ,  new theorists of climate have proposed that perhaps humanity was having an effect on the climate as far back as the beginnings of the agricultural revolution .
SENTENCE when you grow crops and uh ,  pasture your animals  ,  one of the things you do is you cut down the forests .
SENTENCE if you cut down the forests ,  when you burn the trees for fuel and don't replace them with other trees ,  or when you just leave them to rot and don't allow other trees to grow ,  you end up with a lot more carbon in the form of carbon dioxide getting into the atmosphere .
SENTENCE um    another gas associated with the spread of agriculture is methane .
SENTENCE methane forms in large concentration above wetlands ,  and as it turns out ,  the cultivation of certain grains creates vast areas of artificial wetlands ,  and probably drastically increases the amount of methane getting into the atmosphere ,  over and above what would be there .
SENTENCE so ,  um   agriculture ,  the    the spread of agriculture ,  you know we are talking over thousands of years ,  um   but this could very well had a profound effect on the composition of earth's atmosphere .
SENTENCE it's kind of ironic to think that absent that effect ,  it maybe that we would be heading into an ice age again .
SENTENCE in fact ,  back in the 197's ,  a lot of theorists were predicting that ,  you know ,  the climate would start to cool and we'd slowly enter into the new ice age .
SENTENCE and then they were puzzled as to why it didn't seem to be happening .
SENTENCE umm   now ,  what are the implications for the future ?
SENTENCE well ,  um   it is a little tricky .
SENTENCE i mean ,  you could say ,  well ,  here is an example of    um    human activity ,  the agricultural revolution which actually was beneficial ,  we altered the climate for the better  ,  perhaps ,  by preventing an ice age .
SENTENCE but then industrialization ,  of course ,  has drastically increased the amount of carbon dioxide that humans are putting into the atmosphere ,  the burning of fossil fuels tends to put a lot of co2 into the atmosphere .
SENTENCE um   so we are entering into uncharted territory now ,  in terms of the amount of carbon dioxide ,  the concentrations of carbon dioxide that are now being put into the atmosphere as a result of industrialization and the use of fossil fuels .
QUESTION what is the professor's attitude toward industrialization
OPTION he thinks that its effect on earth's climate will decrease overtime 0
OPTION he is worried that it may speed the arrival of the next ice age 0
OPTION he thinks that it may reduce the effect of agriculture on earth's climate 0
OPTION he is unsure about its long term effects on earth's climate 1
