SENTENCE all right ,  so let me close today's class with some thoughts to keep in mind while you are doing tonight's assignment .
SENTENCE you will be reading one of ralph waldo emerson's best known essays  self reliance  and comparing it with his poems and other works .
SENTENCE i think this essay has the potential to be quite meaningful for all of you as young people who probably wonder about things like truth and where your lives are going   all sorts of profound questions .
SENTENCE knowing something about emerson's philosophies will help you when you read  self reliance  .
SENTENCE and basically ,  one of the main beliefs that he had was about truth .
SENTENCE not that it's something that we can be taught ,  emerson says it's found within ourselves .
SENTENCE so this truth ,  the idea that it's in each one of us ,  is one of the first points that you'll see emerson making in this essay .
SENTENCE it's a bit abstract but he's very into uh  into each person believing his or her own thought ,  believing in yourself ,  the thought or conviction that's true for you .
SENTENCE but actually ,  he ties that in with a sort of  universal truth    something that everyone knows but doesn't realize they know .
SENTENCE most of us are in touch with ourselves in a way ,  so we just aren't capable of recognizing profound truth .
SENTENCE it takes geniuses ,  people like ,  say ,  shakespeare ,  who're unique because when they have a glimpse of this truth ,  this universal truth ,  they pay attention to it and express it and don't just dismiss it like most people do .
SENTENCE so emerson is really into each individual believing in and trusting him or herself .
SENTENCE you'll see that he writes about ,  well ,  first ,  conformity .
SENTENCE he criticizes that people of his time for abandoning their own minds and their own wills for the sake of conformity and consistency .
SENTENCE they try to fit in with the rest of the world even though it's at odds with their beliefs and their identities .
SENTENCE therefore ,  it's best to be a non conformist   to do your own thing ,  not worrying about what other people think .
SENTENCE that's an important point .
SENTENCE he really drives this argument home throughout the essay .
SENTENCE when you are reading ,  i want you to think about that and why that kind of thought would be relevant to the readers of his time .
SENTENCE remember this is 1838 ,  self reliance  was a novel idea at the time and the united states citizens were less secure about themselves as individuals and as americans .
SENTENCE the country as a whole was trying to define itself .
SENTENCE emerson wanted to give people something to really think about ,  help them find their own way and what it meant to be who they were .
SENTENCE so that's something that i think is definitely as relevant today as it was then ,  probably ,  um ,  especially among young adults like yourselves ,  you know ,  uh ,  college being a time to sort of really think about who you are and where you're going .
SENTENCE now ,  we already said that emerson really emphasizes non conformity ,  right ?
SENTENCE as a way to sort of not lose your own self and identity in the world ,  to have your own truth and not be afraid to listen to it .
SENTENCE well ,  he takes this a step further .
SENTENCE not conforming also means ,  uh ,  not conforming with yourself or your past .
SENTENCE what does that mean ?
SENTENCE well ,  if you've always been a certain way or done a certain thing ,  but it's not working for you any more ,  or you're not content ,  emerson says that it'd be foolish to be consistent even with our own past .
SENTENCE focus on the future ,   he says ,   that's what matters more .
SENTENCE inconsistency is good .
SENTENCE he talks about a ship's voyage and this is one of the most famous bits of the essay   how the best voyage is made up of zigzag lines .
SENTENCE up close ,  it seems a little all over the place ,  but from farther away ,  the true path shows and in the end it justifies all the turns along the way .
SENTENCE so ,  don't worry if you are not sure where you're headed or what your long term goals are .
SENTENCE stay true to yourself and it'll make sense in the end .
SENTENCE i mean ,  i can attest to that .
SENTENCE before i was a literature professor ,  i was an accountant .
SENTENCE before that ,  i was a newspaper reporter .
SENTENCE my life is taking some pretty interesting turns and here i am ,  very happy with my experiences and where they've brought me .
SENTENCE if you rely on yourself and trust your own talents ,  your own interest ,  don't worry ,  your path will make sense in the end .
QUESTION what point does the professor make when he mentions a ship's path
OPTION it is easy for people to lose sight of their true path 0
OPTION most people are not capable of deciding which path is best for them 0
OPTION the path a person takes can only be seen clearly after the destination has been reached 1
OPTION a person should establish a goal before deciding which path to take 0
