SENTENCE we're really just now beginning to understand how quickly drastic climate change can take place .
SENTENCE we can see past occurrences of climate change that took place over just a few hundred years .
SENTENCE take uh  the sahara desert in northern africa .
SENTENCE the sahara was really different 6 ,     years ago .
SENTENCE i mean ,  you wouldn't call it a tropical paradise or anything ,  uh or maybe you would if you think about how today in some parts of the sahara it it only rains about once a century .
SENTENCE um  but basically ,  you had greenery and you had water .
SENTENCE and what i find particularly interesting   amazing really ,  what really indicates how undesert like the sahara was thousands of years ago ,  was something painted on the rock ,  prehistoric art ,  hippopotamuses ,  as you know hippos need a lot of water and hence ?
SENTENCE hence what ?
SENTENCE they need to live near a large source of water year around .
SENTENCE but how is that proof that the sahara used to be a lot wetter ?
SENTENCE i mean the people who painted those hippos ,  well ,  couldn't they have seen them on their travels ?
SENTENCE okay ,  in principle they could ,  karl .
SENTENCE but the rock paintings aren't the only evidence .
SENTENCE beneath the sahara are huge aquifers ,  basically a sea of fresh water ,  that's perhaps a million years old filtered through rock layers .
SENTENCE and er and then there is fossilized pollen ,  from low shrubs and grasses that once grew in the sahara .
SENTENCE in fact these plants still grow ,  er but hundreds of miles away ,  in more vegetated areas .
SENTENCE anyway ,  it's this fossilized pollen along with the aquifers and the rock paintings ,  these three things are all evidence that the sahara was once much greener than it is today ,  that there were hippos and probably elephants and giraffes and so on .
SENTENCE how did it happen ?
SENTENCE well ,  now ,  we're so used to hearing about how human activities are affecting the climate ,  right ?
SENTENCE but that takes the focus away from the natural variations in the earth climate ,  like the ice age ,  right ?
SENTENCE the planet was practically covered in ice just a few thousand years ago .
SENTENCE now as far as the sahara goes ,  there is some recent literature that points to the migration of the monsoon in that areahuh ?
SENTENCE what do i mean ?
SENTENCE okay ,  a monsoon is a seasonal wind that can bring in a large amount of rainfall .
SENTENCE now if the monsoon migrates ,  well ,  that means that the rains move to another area ,  right ?
SENTENCE so what caused the monsoon to migrate ?
SENTENCE well ,  the answer is  the dynamics of earth's motions ,  the same thing that caused the ice age by the way .
SENTENCE the earth's not always the same distance from the sun ,  and it's not always tilting toward the sun at the same angle .
SENTENCE there are slight variations in these two parameters .
SENTENCE they're gradual variations but their effects can be pretty abrupt .
SENTENCE and can cause the climate to change in just a few hundred years .
SENTENCE well ,  yeah ,  considering that other climate shifts take thousands of years ,  this one is pretty abrupt .
SENTENCE so these changes in the planet's motions ,  they caused the climate to change .
SENTENCE but it was also compounded .
SENTENCE what the sahara experienced was uh a sort of  runaway drying effect  .
SENTENCE as i said the monsoon migrated itself ,  so there was less rain in the sahara .
SENTENCE the land started to get drier ,  which in turn caused a huge decrease in the amount of vegetation ,  because vegetation doesn't grow as well in dry soil ,  right ?
SENTENCE and then ,  less vegetation means the soil can't hold water as well ,  the soil loses its ability to retain water when it does rain .
SENTENCE so then you have less moisture to help clouds form ,  nothing to evaporate for cloud formation .
SENTENCE and then the cycle continues ,  less rain ,  drier soil ,  less vegetation ,  fewer clouds ,  less rain etc .
SENTENCE etc   but ,  what about the people who made the rock paintings ?
SENTENCE good question .
SENTENCE no one really knows .
SENTENCE but there might be some connections to ancient egypt .
SENTENCE at about the same time that the sahara was becoming a desert hmm   5 ,     years ago ,  egypt really began to flourish out in the nile river valley .
SENTENCE and that's not that far away .
SENTENCE so it's only logical to hypothesize that a lot of these people migrated to the nile valley when they realized that this was more than a temporary drought .
SENTENCE and some people take this a step further .
SENTENCE and that's okay ,  that's science and they hypothesize that this migration actually provided an important impetus in the development of ancient egypt .
SENTENCE well ,  we'll stay tuned on that .
QUESTION what is the lecture mainly about
OPTION an example of rapid climate change 1
OPTION a comparison of two mechanisms of climate change 0
OPTION the weather conditions in the present day sahara 0
OPTION recent geological findings made in the sahara 0
