SENTENCE jeff ,  i'm glad you drop by .
SENTENCE i've been meaning to congratulate you on the class leadershipthanks professor brownson ,  i was really happy to get it and a little surprised .
SENTENCE i mean ,  there were so many other people nominated .
SENTENCE well ,  i know the award was well deserved .
SENTENCE now ,  what can i do for you today ?
SENTENCE i needed to talk to you about the medieval history test you know ,  the one scheduled forwell ,  there is this trip that my french class is taking .
SENTENCE we are going to montreal for the weekend .
SENTENCE montreal ?
SENTENCE that's my favorite city .
SENTENCE what'll you be seeing there ?
SENTENCE i'm not sure yet .
SENTENCE well ,  the reason ,  the main reason i wanted to go is that we'll be rooming with french speaking students there ,  you know ,  so we can get a chance to use our french ,  to actually talk with real french speakers .
SENTENCE it sounds like a good opportunity .
SENTENCE but then ,  there is that test .
SENTENCE yeah   but   well ,  the thing is the bus leaves right in the middle of when our history class meets this friday .
SENTENCE so ,  well ,  i was thinking maybe i could take the test on a different day like monday morning during your office hours ?
SENTENCE eh  monday morning  um  that would not be  oh wait ,  let me just see one thing .
SENTENCE aha ,  okay .
SENTENCE that's what i thought .
SENTENCE so ,  for your class ,  i was planning a take home exam so you could just take the test along with you .
SENTENCE let's see ,  i guess you could come to class friday just to pick up the test .
SENTENCE that way you'd still make your bus ,  and then find some quiet time during your trip to complete it and you can bring it to class wednesday when i'll be collecting everyone else's .
SENTENCE hmm    .
SENTENCE um  during the trip ,  well ,  i guess i could .
SENTENCE so i should plan to take my books andyou'll definitely need your class notes .
SENTENCE i'm giving you several short essay questions to make you think critically about the points we've discussed in class ,  to state    .
SENTENCE uh state and defend your opinion ,  analyze the issues ,  speculate about how things might have turned out differently .
SENTENCE so ,  you see ,  i don't care if you look updates and that kind of thing .
SENTENCE what i want is for you to synthesize information to reflect back on what we've read and discussed and to form your own ideas ,  not just repeat points from the textbook .
SENTENCE does that make sense ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  i think so .
SENTENCE you are looking for my point of view .
SENTENCE that's right .
SENTENCE the mid term exam showed me that you know all the details of who ,  where and when .
SENTENCE for this test ,  i want to see how you can put it all together to show some original thinking .
SENTENCE that's sounds pretty challenging ,  especially trying to work it into this trip .
SENTENCE but ,  yeah ,  i think i can do it .
SENTENCE thank you ,  professor brownson .
SENTENCE have a great time in montreal .
QUESTION why does the student go to see the professor
OPTION to find his grade on the midterm exam 0
OPTION to explain why he missed a class 0
OPTION to get help writing an essay 0
OPTION to ask to take a test at a different time 1
