SENTENCE ok ,  i wanna go over the different types of meteorites ,  and what we've learned from them about the formation of earth ,  and the solar system .
SENTENCE uh  the thing is what's especially interesting about meteorites is that they come from interplanetary space ,  but they consist of the same chemical elements that are in matter originating on earth ,  just in different proportions .
SENTENCE but that makes it easier to identify something as a meteorite ,  as opposed to to just a terrestrial rock .
SENTENCE so to talk about where meteorites come from ,  we need to talk about comets and asteroids ,  which basically  they're basically made up of debris left over from the origin of the solar system 4 .
SENTENCE 6 billion years ago .
SENTENCE now i'm going a bit out of a order here um i'm not going to go into any depth on comets and asteroids now ,  but we'll come back later and do that .
SENTENCE for now ,  i'll just cover some basic info about them .
SENTENCE ok ,  comets and asteroids .
SENTENCE it might help if you think of  remember we talked about the two classes of planets in our solar system ?
SENTENCE and how they differ in composition ?
SENTENCE the terrestrial planets  like mars and earth  composed largely of rocks and metals ,  and the large gas giants ,  like jupiter .
SENTENCE well ,  the solar system also has two analogous classes of objects ,  smaller than planets  namely ,  asteroids and comets .
SENTENCE relatively near the sun ,  in the inner solar system ,  between jupiter and mars to be precise ,  we've got the asteroid belt ,  which contains about 9  percents of all asteroids orbiting the sun .
SENTENCE these asteroids are uh like the terrestrial planets ,  in that they're composed mostly of rocky material and metals .
SENTENCE far from the sun ,  in the outer solar system ,  beyond jupiter's orbit ,  temperatures are low enough to permit ices to form out of water and and out of gases like methane and carbon dioxide .
SENTENCE loose collections of these ices and small rocky particles form into comets .
SENTENCE so comets are similar in composition to the gas giants .
SENTENCE both comets and asteroids are  typically are smaller than planets .
SENTENCE an even smaller type of interplanetary debris is the meteoroid .
SENTENCE and it's from meteoroids that we get meteors and meteorites .
SENTENCE roids  are ,  for the most part anyway ,  they are just smaller bits of asteroids and comets .
SENTENCE when these bits enter earth's atmosphere ,  well ,  that makes them so special that they get a special name .
SENTENCE they're called meteors .
SENTENCE most of them are very small ,  and they burn up soon after entering earth's atmosphere .
SENTENCE the larger ones that make it through the atmosphere and hit the ground are called meteorites .
SENTENCE so meteorites are the ones that actually make it through .
SENTENCE now we've been finding meteorites on earth for thousands of years ,  and we've analyzed enough of them to learn a lot about their composition ,  most come from asteroids ,  though a few may have come from comets .
SENTENCE so essentially they are rocks ,  and like rocks ,  they're mixtures of minerals .
SENTENCE they are generally classified into three broad categories  stones ,  stony irons and irons .
SENTENCE stone meteorites ,  which we refer to simply as ,  uh ,  stones ,  are almost entirely rock material .
SENTENCE they actually account for almost all of the meteorite material that falls to earth .
SENTENCE but even so ,  it's rare to ever find one .
SENTENCE i mean ,  it's easier to find an iron meteorite or a stony iron .
SENTENCE anyone guess why ?
SENTENCE look at their names .
SENTENCE what do you think iron meteorites consist of ?
SENTENCE yeah  iron and some nickel ,  both of which are metals .
SENTENCE and ,  if you're trying to find metal ?
SENTENCE right ,  thank you .
SENTENCE at least that's part of it .
SENTENCE stone meteorites ,  if they lie around exposed to the weather for a few years ,  well ,  they're made of rock ,  so they end up looking almost indistinguishable from common terrestrial rocks  ones that originated on earth .
SENTENCE so it's hard to spot them by eye .
SENTENCE but we can use metal detectors to help us find the others ,  and they're easier to spot by eye .
SENTENCE so most of the meteorites in collections ,  uh ,  in museums ,  they'll be  they're iron meteorites ,  or the stony iron kind ,  even though they only make up about 5 percent of the meteorite material on the ground .
QUESTION what are two points the professor makes about stone meteorites
OPTION they are the type of meteorite that most commonly falls to the ground 1
OPTION they are type of meteorite most often seen in museums 0
OPTION they are the oldest type of meteorite found on the ground 0
OPTION they are the most difficult type of meteorite to find on the ground 1
