SENTENCE professor  all right ,  let's continue our discussion of portrait artists portraitist  and portraiture .
SENTENCE who remembers any of the important points we made last time ?
SENTENCE sandra ?
SENTENCE student  well ,  artists have done portraits of people for centuries ,  of famous people and regular people ,  and most portraits convey the artists  personal vision ,  like their feelings and insights about a person .
SENTENCE professor  great ,  that's a crucial point ,  and i'd like to explore that a little today .
SENTENCE a great example of that ,  that vision in portraiture ,  is cecilia beaux .
SENTENCE cecilia beaux was born in 1854 ,  and after learning to paint and studying with several important artists of the time ,  beaux became known as one of the best portrait painters in the united states .
SENTENCE she was very successful .
SENTENCE she even had portraits of the wife and children of theodore roosevelt ,  while he was president .
SENTENCE some did not get much more prestige than that .
SENTENCE now ,  those portraits also reflect the kind of subjects that beaux tended to use ,  which were mostly women and children .
SENTENCE for example ,  in her first major work ,  her subjects were    ,  the painting featured her sister and her nephew .
SENTENCE yes ,  mark ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  it just seems interesting .
SENTENCE i was wondering if that was unusual to have a portrait artist who is a woman become so well known and successful in the 19th century .
SENTENCE great question .
SENTENCE yeah ,  she really stood out back in the 18 's .
SENTENCE and today ,  she is still considered one of the greatest portrait painters of her time ,  male or female .
SENTENCE in fact ,  she was the first full time female instructor at the pennsylvania academy of the fine arts ,  and she was a full member of the national academy of design .
SENTENCE these are pretty important institutions ,  so ,  yeah ,  she definitely made headway for women artists .
SENTENCE ok ,  so let's look at one of her portraits now ,  this painting is called the dreamer .
SENTENCE it is one of my favorites .
SENTENCE and i think it is especially characteristic of beaux's work .
SENTENCE so what you see here is a portrait of a close friend of cecilia beaux .
SENTENCE so tell me what's the first thing that draws you to this painting ?
SENTENCE what catches your eye first .
SENTENCE well ,  for me ,  it is her face and hands ,  i think they are really expressive ,  and also ,  they make the woman seem very comtemplative ,  seems like she is thinking pretty seriously about something .
SENTENCE yeah ,  her eyes kind of draw you in .
SENTENCE but what strikes me is the contrasting colors ,  the white dress and the dark background .
SENTENCE it kind of reminds me of that painting we discussed a few weeks ago ,  by   eh   john singer sargent .
SENTENCE i think it was called madamex ?
SENTENCE i agree ,  good point .
SENTENCE yes ,  beaux had high regard for sargent's work .
SENTENCE and this is something ,  a technique you will find in both of their work .
SENTENCE ok ,  but the painting is called the dreamer .
SENTENCE what do you see is dreamlike about it ?
SENTENCE well ,  the background behind the woman is pretty vague .
SENTENCE like ,  maybe there is no real context ,  like no definite surroundings ,  expecially compared to the woman herself ,  since she is so clear and well defined .
SENTENCE yes ,  the unclear background definitely contributes to that dreaminess .
SENTENCE it is meant to show a sense of isolation i think .
SENTENCE with the woman is deep in a daydream and not really aware of anything eale .
SENTENCE this painting shows how insightful cecilia beaux was as a portrait artist .
SENTENCE besides her excellent technical skills ,  like her use of brush strokes and color to make an impression ,  both respectives come through .
SENTENCE her portraits reveal her own interpretation of her subject's state of mind .
SENTENCE this is what it is all about ,  not just likenessesnow ,  the undefined background also shows how cecilia beaux was influenced by the french impressionists ,  who believed ,  like beaux ,  in a personal rather than conventional approach to their subject matter .
SENTENCE beaux used some impressionist techniques and share much of their phylosophy ,  but her style ,  it was all her own .
QUESTION based on the discussion , what is the professor's attitude inward portraiture
OPTION the artist's technical skill is the most important aspect of a portrait 0
OPTION an artist is seldom able to create an exact likeness of a subject 0
OPTION a good portrait portrays the subject in are informal setting 0
OPTION a good portrait portrays more than a physical image 1
