SENTENCE so we've been talking about the printing press ,  how it changed people's lives ,  making books more accessible to everyone .
SENTENCE more books meant more reading ,  right ?
SENTENCE but ,  as you know ,  not everyone has perfect vision .
SENTENCE this increase in literacy ,  um ,  in reading ,  led to an increase in demand for eyeglasses .
SENTENCE and here's something you probably haven't thought of .
SENTENCE this increased demand impacted societal attitudes towards eyeglasses .
SENTENCE but ,  first let me back up a bit and talk about vision correction before the printing press .
SENTENCE and ,  um ,  what did people with poor vision do ,  i mean ,  especially those few people who were actually literate ?
SENTENCE what did they do before glasses were invented ?
SENTENCE well ,  they had different ways of dealing with not seeing well .
SENTENCE if you think about it ,  poor vision wasn't their only problem .
SENTENCE i mean ,  um ,  think about the conditions they lived in  houses were dark ,  sometimes there weren't any windows  candles were the only source of light .
SENTENCE so in some places ,  um ,  like ancient greece for example ,  the wealthiest people with poor vision could have someone else read to them  easy solution if you could afford it .
SENTENCE another solution was something called a  reading stone  .
SENTENCE around 1    c .
SENTENCE e .
SENTENCE european monks would take a piece of clear rock ,  often quartz ,  and place it on top of the reading material .
SENTENCE the clear rock magnified the letters ,  making them appear larger ,  um ,  well ,  it's like what happens when a drop of water falls on something ,  whatever's below the drop of water appears larger ,  right ?
SENTENCE well ,  the  reading stone  works in a similar way .
SENTENCE but rocks like quartz ,  well ,  quartz of optical quality weren't cheap .
SENTENCE late in the 13th century ,  glass makers in italy came up with a less expensive alternative .
SENTENCE they made reading stones out of clear glass .
SENTENCE and these clear glass reading stones evolved into the eyeglasses we know today .
SENTENCE so we're pretty sure that glasses were invented about the late 12  's ,  well ,  over a hundred years before the printing press .
SENTENCE but it's not clear who exactly invented them first or exactly what year .
SENTENCE but record shows that they were invented in both europe and china at about the same time .
SENTENCE by the way ,  we call this  independent discovery  .
SENTENCE independent discovery means when something is invented in different parts of the world at the same time and it's not as unusual as it sounds .
SENTENCE you can look at the timeline charts in the back of your textbook to see when things were invented in different cultures at about the same time to see what i'm talking about .
SENTENCE so now let's tie this to what i've said before about societal attitudes towards glasses .
SENTENCE initially in parts of europe and in china ,  glasses were a symbol of wisdom and intelligence .
SENTENCE this is evident in the artwork from the period .
SENTENCE european paintings often portrayed doctors or judges wearing glasses .
SENTENCE in china ,  glasses were very expensive .
SENTENCE so in addition to intelligence ,  they also symbolize affluence ,  um ,  wealth .
SENTENCE in 14th century chinese portraits ,  the bigger the glasses ,  the smarter and wealthier the subject was .
SENTENCE so glasses were a status symbol in some parts of the world .
SENTENCE now let's get back to the invention of the painting press in 144  .
SENTENCE what happened ?
SENTENCE suddenly ,  books became readily available and more people wanted to read .
SENTENCE so the need ,  oh well ,  actually not only the need but the demand for more affordable glasses rose drastically .
SENTENCE eventually ,  inexpensive glasses were produced ,  and then glasses were available to everyone .
SENTENCE people could purchase them easily from a traveling peddler .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about the invention of eyeglass
OPTION its historical records are more detailed than those of other inventions 0
OPTION it has little impact on social attitudes toward vision correction 0
OPTION its occurrence in different places at approximately the same time is out unusual 1
OPTION it contributed to a substantial increase in the number of literate people 0
