SENTENCE hi .
SENTENCE can i help you ?
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE i need to sell back a textbook .
SENTENCE are you the person i speak to about that ?
SENTENCE i am .
SENTENCE but we can't buy textbooks back just yet ,  because the bookstore's buyback period isn't until next thursday .
SENTENCE i thought it started this week .
SENTENCE it is only in the last week of the semester after classes are over .
SENTENCE oh .
SENTENCE well ,  can you tell me if this book will be on the buyback list ?
SENTENCE i can look .
SENTENCE but we are still putting the list together .
SENTENCE professors have to tell us what books they'll definitely need again next semester ,  and the deadline for them to let us know isn't for a couple of days .
SENTENCE so the list i have here is not really complete .
SENTENCE um what class was the book for ?
SENTENCE intro to economics ,  with professor murphy .
SENTENCE professor murphy .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE i checked earlier and i know she hasn't gotten back to us on that class yet .
SENTENCE so we don't know if she'll use the same book next time .
SENTENCE usually if an updated edition of a textbook is available ,  professors will go for that one .
SENTENCE um so if this book doesn't end up on the buyback list ,  what can i do ?
SENTENCE i spent over a hundred dollars for it ,  and i want to get something back .
SENTENCE well ,  if a professor didn't assign it for a class here ,  we could buy back for a whole seller who would distribute it for sale at another university bookstore .
SENTENCE anyway if professor murphy does put it on the list ,  it is important thatyou come in as early as possible next thursday .
SENTENCE there's only a limited number of books we would buy back .
SENTENCE once we get the number of books we need for next semester ,  we would stop buying them .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE so how much money will i get for the book ?
SENTENCE well ,  if it's on the buyback list ,  we'll pay fifty percent of what the new price was .
SENTENCE but that also depends on what condition the book is in ,  so it needs to be cleaned up as much as possible .
SENTENCE because used books show wear and tear ,  you know ,  water stains ,  scruffy covers ,  yellow highlighting you really need to make sure there are no pencil marks on the book .
SENTENCE the price you can get for a text depends on the shape it's in .
SENTENCE you mean i have to erase all the pencil marks ?
SENTENCE if you want the best price for it and what if you decide the book is too beat up and don't buy it back ?
SENTENCE that does happen .
SENTENCE hmm well ,  one more thing you can try is to place an ad in the student newspaper to see if you can sell it directly to another student .
QUESTION what does the woman suggest the man should do to have the best chance of selling his book to the bookstore
OPTION ask his professor if the same book will be used next semester 0
OPTION sell the book back as soon as the buyback period begins 1
OPTION make sure the book is in good condition 1
OPTION bring the original sales receipt with the book 0
