SENTENCE in the last 5  years or so ,  many american cities have had difficulties in maintaining a successful retail environment .
SENTENCE business owners in the city centers or the downtown areas have experienced some financial losses ,  because of a steady movement of people out of the cities and into the suburbs .
SENTENCE in general ,  downtown areas ,  just don't have that many residential areas ,  not that many people live there .
SENTENCE so what have city planners decided to do about it ?
SENTENCE well ,  one way they've come up with some ways to attract more people ,  to shop downtown was by creating pedestrian malls .
SENTENCE now ,  what is a pedestrian mall ?
SENTENCE it's a pretty simple concept really ,  it is essentially an outdoor shopping area designed just for people on foot .
SENTENCE and  well ,  unlike many other shopping malls that are built in the suburbs nowadays ,  these pedestrian malls are typically located in the downtown area of the city .
SENTENCE and  oh   there are features like white sidewalks ,  comfortable outdoor seating and maybe even fountains ,  and   you know ,  art .
SENTENCE there are variations on this model of course ,  but the common denominator is always the idea of creating a shopping space that will get people to shop in the city without needing their cars .
SENTENCE so i am sure you can see how having an area that's off limits to automobile traffic would be ideal for a heavily populated city where ,  well ,  the streets would otherwise be bustling with noisy ,  unpleasant traffic congestion .
SENTENCE concept which originated in europe was adopted by american city planners in the late 195's .
SENTENCE and since then ,  a number of unites states  cities have created pedestrian malls .
SENTENCE and many of them have been highly successful .
SENTENCE so what have city planners learned about making these malls succeed ?
SENTENCE well ,  there are two critical factors to consider when creating a pedestrian mall    location and design .
SENTENCE both of which are equally important .
SENTENCE now let's start with the location .
SENTENCE in choosing a specific location for a pedestrian mall ,  there are in fact two considerations .
SENTENCE proximity to potential customers ,  um that's we'd call a customer base and accessibility to public transportation which we will get to in just a moment .
SENTENCE now ,  for a customer base ,  the most obvious example would be a large office building since the employees could theoretically go shopping after work or during their lunch hour ,  right ?
SENTENCE another really good example is convention center which typically has a hotel and large meeting spaces to draw visitors to the city for major business conferences and events .
SENTENCE but ideally ,  the pedestrian mall would be used by local residents ,  not just people working in the city or visiting the area .
SENTENCE so that's where access to public transportation comes in ,  either   um  either the designers plan to locate the mall near a central transportation hub ,  like a bus terminal ,  a major train or subway station or they work with city officials to create sufficient parking areas ,  not too far from the mall ,  which makes sense because if people can't drive into the mall area ,  well ,  then they need to have easy access to it .
SENTENCE ok ,  so that's location ,  but    but what about design ?
SENTENCE well ,  design doesn't necessarily include things like sculptures or decorative walkways or  or even eye catching window displays ,  you know ,  art .
SENTENCE although i would be the first to admit those things are aesthetically appealing ,  however ,  visually pleasing sights ,  well ,  they are not a part of the pedestrian mall design that matter than most .
SENTENCE the key consideration is a compact and convenient layout .
SENTENCE one which allows pedestrians to walk from one end of the mall to the other in just a few minutes ,  so they can get to the major stores ,  resaurants and other central places without having to take more than one or two turns .
SENTENCE now ,  this takes careful and creative planning .
SENTENCE but now what if one ingredient to this planning recipe is missing ?
SENTENCE there could quite possibly be long lasting effects .
SENTENCE and i think a good example is the pedestrian mall in the louisville kentucky for instance .
SENTENCE now when the louisville mall was built ,  oh ,  it had lots of visual appeal ,  it was attractively designed ,  right in the small part of downtown and it pretty much possessed all of the other design elements for success .
SENTENCE but    uh ,  now ,  here is where my point about location comes into play .
SENTENCE there wasn't a convention center around to    to help draw in visitors ,  and well ,  the only nearby hotel eventually closed down for that same reason .
SENTENCE well ,  you can imagine how this must have affected local and pedestrian mall business owners .
SENTENCE sort of what was we call a chain reaction .
SENTENCE it wasn't until a convention center and a parking garage were built about a decade later that the mall started to be successful .
QUESTION why does the professor explain the design of a pedestrian mall
OPTION to illustrate its importance to the success of a pedestrian mall 1
OPTION to explain why pedestrian malls are so appealing to the shoppers 0
OPTION to point out how a pedestrian mall looks different from other malls 0
OPTION to show how the design is more important than the location 0
