SENTENCE ok ,  i'm going to begin this lecture by giving you your next assignment .
SENTENCE remember i said that at some point during this semester i wanted you to attend an exhibit at the fairy street gallery and then write about it ?
SENTENCE well ,  the exhibit that i want you to attend is coming up .
SENTENCE it's already started in fact ,  but it'll be at the gallery for the next month ,  which should give you plenty of time to complete this assignment .
SENTENCE the name of the artist exhibiting there is rose frantzen .
SENTENCE frantzen's work may be unfamiliar to you since she's a relatively young artist .
SENTENCE but she's got a very unusual style ,  compared to some of the artists we've looked at this term .
SENTENCE but anyway ,  frantzen's style is what she herself calls realistic impressionism .
SENTENCE so you've probably studied both of these movements separately ,  separate movements ,  realism and impressionism ,  in some of your art history courses .
SENTENCE so who can just sum these up ?
SENTENCE well ,  impressionism started in the late 19th century .
SENTENCE um the basic impressionist style was very different from earlier styles .
SENTENCE it didn't depict scenes or models exactly as they looked .
SENTENCE um  impressionist painters tended to apply paint really thickly ,  and in big brushstrokes ,  so the texture of the canvas was rough .
SENTENCE good .
SENTENCE what else ?
SENTENCE what were the subjects ?
SENTENCE well ,  a lot of impressionist artists painted everyday scenes ,  like people on the streets and in cafes ,  uh ,  lots of nature scenes ,  especially landscapes .
SENTENCE good .
SENTENCE so when you go to the exhibit ,  i really want you to take a close look at a certain painting .
SENTENCE it's a farm scene .
SENTENCE and you will see it right as you enter the gallery .
SENTENCE the reason i think this painting is so important is that it stresses the impressionist aspect of frantzen's style .
SENTENCE it's an outdoor scene ,  an everyday scene .
SENTENCE it's kind of bleak ,  but you can really see those broad brushstrokes and the blurry lines .
SENTENCE the colors aren't quite realistic .
SENTENCE the sky is kind of ,  well an unnatural pinkish yellow .
SENTENCE and the fence in the foreground is blue ,  but somehow the overall scene gives an impression of a cold ,  bleak winter day on a farm .
SENTENCE so that's the impressionist side of her work .
SENTENCE oh ,  and speaking about farms ,  that reminds me .
SENTENCE one interesting thing i read about franzten is that when she first moved back to iowa after living abroad ,  she often visited this place in her town called the sales barn .
SENTENCE and the sales barn ,  it was basically this place where the local farmers bought and sold their cattle ,  their farm animals .
SENTENCE and the reason frantzen went there ,  and she later on would visit other places like dance halls ,  was to observe people and the ways that they moved .
SENTENCE she really found that this helped her work   that it gave her an understanding of body movements and actions ,  how humans move ,  and stand still ,  what their postures were like ,  too .
SENTENCE so ,  what about realism ?
SENTENCE what are the elements of realism we should be looking for in frantzen's work ?
SENTENCE um  real honest depictions of subject matter ,  pretty unidealized stuff ,  and pretty everyday subject matter ,  too .
SENTENCE good .
SENTENCE one other painting i really want you to look at is of a young woman surrounded by pumpkins .
SENTENCE you will notice that the woman's face is so realistic looking that it's almost like a photograph .
SENTENCE the woman's nose is a little less than perfect and her hair is kind of messed up .
SENTENCE this is realism .
SENTENCE but then ,  the background of the painting ,  this woman with the pumpkins is wrapped in a blanket of broad thick brushstrokes ,  and ,  it's all kinds of zigzagging brushstrokes and lines ,  kind of chaotic almost when you look at it close .
SENTENCE and there are vibrant colors .
SENTENCE there's lots of orange ,  with little hints of an electric blue peeking out .
SENTENCE i find frantzen to be a very accessible artist .
SENTENCE i mean ,  some artists ,  to appreciate them ,  you have to know their life story .
SENTENCE but here's a little bit about rose frantzen's life anyway .
SENTENCE she attended art school ,  but was told by one of her instructors that she was not good at illustration ,  that she should go into advertising instead .
SENTENCE so she took advertising classes and fine arts classes too ,  until she was convinced by the head of an advertising agency that her work was really good ,  that she could be an artist .
SENTENCE but of course ,  it's not as easy as that ,  and so frantzen had to paint other people's portraits at places like art fairs just to make money to buy paint for her more serious art work .
SENTENCE no matter what ,  she never stopped painting .
SENTENCE and now ,  frantzen is doing extremely well .
SENTENCE and her work is being shown all over the country .
SENTENCE so i think most of us would be discouraged if we had to face challenges and difficulties like that .
SENTENCE but what's important is that you keep at it that you don't give up .
SENTENCE that's what is really important to remember .
QUESTION what is the purpose of the lecture
OPTION to explain the difference between two artistic styles 0
OPTION to describe a new art gallery to the class 0
OPTION to introduce an artist's work to the class 1
OPTION to show how artists'styles can evolve over time 0
