SENTENCE ok ,  as we've talked about a key aspect of running a successful business is knowing ,  um ,  getting a good sense of what the customer actually wants ,  and how they perceive your product .
SENTENCE so with that in mind ,  i want to describe a very simple method of researching customer preference ,  and it is becoming increasingly common ,  it's called    mbwa    which stands for managing by wandering around .
SENTENCE now ,  mbwa ,  that's not the most technical sounding name you've ever heard ,  but it describes the process pretty accurately .
SENTENCE here is how it works .
SENTENCE basically ,  um ,  the idea is that business owners or business managers just go out and actually talk to their customers ,  and learn more about how well the business is serving their needs ,  and try to see what the customer experiences ,  because that's a great way to discover for yourself ,  how your product is perceived ,  what its strengths and weaknesses are ,  you know ,  how you can improve it   that sort of thing .
SENTENCE you know dortans ,  they make soup and canned vegetables and such .
SENTENCE well ,  the head of the company had dortans  top executives walk around supermarkets ,  um ,  asking shoppers what they thought of dortans  soups ,  and he used that data to make changes to the company's product ,  i mean ,  when dortans of all the companies ,  embraces something as radical as mbwa ,  it really shows you how popular the theory has become ,  yes ,  lisa ?
SENTENCE but isn't it dangerous to base decisions on information from a small sample of people ?
SENTENCE isn't large scale market research safer getting data on a lot of people ?
SENTENCE that's a good question ,  and well i don't want to pretend that w  mbwa is some sort of ,  um ,  replacement for other methods of customer research .
SENTENCE now ,  market research data definitely can give you a good idea of ,  um ,  of the big picture ,  but mbwa is really useful ,  it kind of filling in the blanks ,  you know ,  getting a good underground sense of how your products are used ,  and how people need to respond to them ,  and yes ,  the numbers of opinion you get is small so you do need to be careful ,  but ,  good business managers will tell you that the big fear they have and    .
SENTENCE and one of the most frequent problems they come across is well becoming out of touch with what their customers really want and need ,  you know ,  surveys and market research stuff like that ,  they can only tell you so much about what the customers actually want in their day to day lives .
SENTENCE managing by wandering around ,  on the other hand ,  well ,  that gets you in there and gives you a good sense of what customers need .
SENTENCE so    so when using combination then ,  mbwa and market research ,  well ,  they are powerful tools .
SENTENCE oh ,  here is another example for you ,  uh ,  senior executives for a clothing manufacturer .
SENTENCE it was ,  um ,  lken ,  lken jeans you know ,  they went and worked in a store for a few days ,  selling lken's cloths .
SENTENCE now that gave them a very different idea about their product ,  they saw how people responded to it  they could go up to customers in the store and ask them questions about it ,  uh ,  yes mike ?
SENTENCE well ,  i would think that a lot of customers would be bothered by ,  you know ,  if i'm shopping ,  i don't know if i'd want some business representative coming up to me and asking me questions ,  it's   it's like when i get phone calls at home from market researchers ,  i just hang up on them professor oh ,  well ,  it's certainly true that well no one likes getting calls at home from market researchers or people like that ,  but i will tell you something .
SENTENCE most customers have the exact opposite reaction when it comes to mbwa .
SENTENCE now ,  don't ask me why ,  because i really have no idea ,  but the fact is that customers tend to respond really well to mbwa ,  which is the key reason for its success .
SENTENCE in fact ,  the techniques of mbwa work so well ,  they have actually been extended to all kinds of different contexts ,  like politics for instance ,  um ,  a few years back ,  the mayor of baltimore ,  um   i think his name was sheaffer or something like that .
SENTENCE anyway ,  he decided that the best way to serve the people of the city ,  of his city ,  was to actually get out there in it and experience the things that they experienced ,  so he'd ride around the city in ,  well ,  you know ,  in all parts of it ,  and he'd see all the potholes  he'd see how the trash was sometimes ,  um ,  not picked up off the side of the street and then he'd go back to his office and he'd write these memos ,  now they were memos to his staff about the problems he had seen ,  and how they needed to be fixed ,  you know that sort of thing ,  but the thing is he got all this information just by going around and seeing the different baltimore neighborhoods and talking to the people in them .
SENTENCE now he called it    smart politics ,  we'd call it mbwa ,  or just ,  playing good customer service .
QUESTION what is the lecture mainly about
OPTION two competing theories of business management 0
OPTION tools that business managers can use to improve the efficiency of their employees 0
OPTION a method for business to learn about the needs of their customers 1
OPTION a way that business managers can better relate to their employees 0
