SENTENCE hi ,  i'd like to drop off my graduation form  i understand you need this in order to process my diploma .
SENTENCE ok ,  i will take that .
SENTENCE before you leave ,  let's me check our computer .
SENTENCE looks like you are ok for graduation ,  and actually ,  i am getting a warning flag on your academic record here .
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE let's see what's what .
SENTENCE are you familiar with our graduation requirements ?
SENTENCE well ,  then you know you need 48 credits in your major field to graduate and at least 24 credits at the intermediate level or higher .
SENTENCE also ,  after your second year ,  you have to meet with your department chair to outline a plan for the rest of your time here .
SENTENCE in the past ,  we also issue letters before s  final year began to let them know what they needed to take in the final year to be ok ,  but we don't do that anymore .
SENTENCE i definitely met with my chair person 2 years ago .
SENTENCE he told me that i needed 8 more courses at the intermediate level or higher in the last 2 years to be ok .
SENTENCE so i am not sure what the problem is ,  i make sure i got those credits .
SENTENCE unfortunately ,  the computer is usually pretty reliable .
SENTENCE so i am not sure what's going on here .
SENTENCE it could be that i have taken 2 basic courses but coupled both of them with ,  uh ,  field experiences .
SENTENCE well ,  i could only take intro courses because there were no intermediate level courses available for those particular topics .
SENTENCE my chair person told me that if i did independent field research in addition to the assigned work in each course  they would count as intermediate level courses .
SENTENCE my classmates ,  um ,  some of my classmates ,  did this for an easy way to meet their intermediate course requirement ,  but i did it to get the kind of depth in those topics i was going for .
SENTENCE as it turned out i really enjoyed the field work ,  it was a nice supplement to just sitting and listening to lectures  i am sure that's true ,  but the computer is still showing them as basic level courses despite the field work .
SENTENCE i am not sure what to do then ,  i mean ,  should i cancel my graduation party ?
SENTENCE no ,  no reason to get worried like that ,  just contact your chair person immediately ,  ok ,  tell him to call me as soon as possible so that we can verify your field work arrangement and certify those credits right away .
SENTENCE it's not like there is an actual deadline to date or anything .
SENTENCE but if more than a few weeks go by ,  we might have a real problem that would very difficult to fix in time for you to graduate .
SENTENCE in fact ,  there probably would be nothing we could do .
SENTENCE i will get on that .
QUESTION why does the registrar tell the man to contact his chairperson immediately
OPTION a deadline has already passed 0
OPTION the man has a limited time to resolve his problem 1
OPTION the man first needs to find out if the chairperson will help him 0
OPTION issuing a new grade may take longer than expected 0
