SENTENCE excuse me ,  mrs.  hanson .
SENTENCE my name is john ,  john grant .
SENTENCE i work as a waiter in the campus dining hall ,  in the faculty dining room .
SENTENCE what can i do for you ,  john ?
SENTENCE well ,  i work week nights ,  except for friday .
SENTENCE i was wondering if i could switch from working the dinner service to working at lunch .
SENTENCE that's going to be a problem .
SENTENCE i am afraid we don't have any openings at lunch time .
SENTENCE a lot of students want to work then ,  so it is really rare for us to have an open spot at that time of day .
SENTENCE oh ,  you see ,  i have joined this group ,  the university jazz band ,  and the band's practice time is right around dinner time .
SENTENCE you know ,  it is so hard to get into this group ,  i must have auditioned like ten times since i have been at the school ,  so i am    anyway ,  so i was really hoping to have the dinner hour free so i can go to practice .
SENTENCE well ,  we do have other open times ,  like breakfast .
SENTENCE eh ,  that won't work ,  i am sorry .
SENTENCE i mean that ,  i can't work that early .
SENTENCE i have this very important music class i got to take ,  and it is like ,  first thing in the morning .
SENTENCE well ,  if you don't mind working in the kitchen ,  we've got some pretty flexible hours for students doing food prep work ,  anything from early morning to late afternoon .
SENTENCE you prepare food for the cooks .
SENTENCE you know ,  like cutting up vegetables for soup ,  or cleaning greens for salads .
SENTENCE oh ,  that doesn't sound ,  i mean   being a waiter ,  i get to see a lot of the professors ,  like in a different light ,  we joke around a little you know .
SENTENCE in the classroom ,  they always have to be pretty formal ,  but    well ,  the money is no different since we pay students the same amount for any of the jobs here in food service ,  so it's up to you .
SENTENCE oh ,  man .
SENTENCE i always thought that sacrificing for my art ,  that'd mean working long hours as a musician for ,  like ,  no money .
SENTENCE i didn't think it'd mean ,  peeling carrots .
SENTENCE let me see ,  i am offering you something that has the hours you want ,  it is right here on campus ,  and you make as much money as you did being a waiter ,  quite a sacrifice .
SENTENCE i am sorry ,  i know you are just trying to help .
SENTENCE i guess i should look into the food prep ok ,  then ,  i'll tell the kitchen manager that you will stop by tomorrow to talk about the job and schedule your hours .
SENTENCE and i will let the dining hall manager know that he needs to find a new waiter for the evening .
SENTENCE oh ,  ok ,  i guess that 's it .
SENTENCE thanks ,  mrs.  hanson .
QUESTION why does the man go to see the woman
OPTION to complain about customers 0
OPTION to request an increase in his pay 0
OPTION to ask for a change in his work schedule 1
OPTION to apply for a job playing music in the dining hall 0
