SENTENCE and what instrument comes to mind when you think of rock  n  roll ?
SENTENCE exactly .
SENTENCE i think it's fair to say that the sound of the electric guitar typifies the rock  n  roll genre ,  which became popular in the 195's .
SENTENCE but really the instrument we know today was the result of a continuing development that started for our practical purposes in the 192's .
SENTENCE but long before that even ,  people were experimenting with ways to modify traditional acoustic guitars .
SENTENCE the first guitars were wooden .
SENTENCE this is the spanish guitar and the strings were made from animal products .
SENTENCE then came steel strings .
SENTENCE and that led to the lap guitar ,  which is also called the steel guitar because the player slides a steel rod up and down the neck .
SENTENCE and those are all acoustic guitars .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE but then eventually we have electric guitars .
SENTENCE over the years ,  many inventors and musicians contributed to the design of these instruments .
SENTENCE and each design was intended to alter the sound in some way ,  at first at least with the electric guitar ,  to make it louder .
SENTENCE so let's get back to when the steel guitar was first introduced in the united states .
SENTENCE it was right after the spanish american war in the late 189's .
SENTENCE us sailors who were stationed in hawaii then a us territory were very enamored with the music they heard there .
SENTENCE uh ,  hawaiian music was based on the steel guitar i just described .
SENTENCE some sailors learned how to play the steel guitar and brought it home to the states .
SENTENCE before long ,  hawaiian steel guitar music was all the rage  in the mainland us .
SENTENCE it actually had a strong influence on the development of several musical genres ,  rock  n  roll most notably ,  but also jazz and blues .
SENTENCE anyway ,  by the 192's ,  with the advent of the public dance movement ,  people were gathering in large groups to listen to steel guitar music .
SENTENCE but they had trouble hearing it ,  especially in large public settings .
SENTENCE as i mentioned ,  the instrument was played horizontally ,  on the lap .
SENTENCE since the strings faced upward ,  the sound was projected toward the ceiling rather than outward toward the audience .
SENTENCE something had to be done ,  because the music venues and the audience kept getting larger and larger .
SENTENCE so what would you do ?
SENTENCE find a way to amplify the sound ?
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE and to do that ,  inventors started attaching electronic devices ,  electrical coils to the acoustic guitars .
SENTENCE and the electronics worked !
SENTENCE but attaching electronics didn't just affect how loudly you could play .
SENTENCE it also changed the quality of the sound .
SENTENCE these early electric guitars were hollow and these early amplifiers caused vibrations in the bodies of the instruments .
SENTENCE so as the sound got louder ,  it became more distorted ,  fuzzy sounding .
SENTENCE and what musicians at the time wanted was a pure ,  clean sound .
SENTENCE so where does les paul fit in ?
SENTENCE wasn't he the first to electrify acoustic guitars ?
SENTENCE uh no .
SENTENCE electrified guitars already existed by the time les paul came into the picture around 194  .
SENTENCE what paul did was experiment with ways of removing the distortions and he succeeded .
SENTENCE he designed a guitar with a solid body that relied solely on electronics .
SENTENCE paul's solid body eliminated the vibrations ,  and thus the distortions .
SENTENCE excuse me .
SENTENCE but when i think of electric guitar music ,  i think of jimi hendrix .
SENTENCE jimi hendrix ,  one of my favorites .
SENTENCE but hendrix's style really was all about distortion ,  that's what's so great about his music ,  all those special effects .
SENTENCE i think a lot of rock  n  roll fans prefer that to a pure sound .
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE you are getting ahead of me here .
SENTENCE but good ,  because the point i was going to make is that the sound of rock  n  roll changed over the years .
SENTENCE and the designs and technology of electric guitars made those changes possible .
SENTENCE so whereas les paul's goal was to remove the distortion ,  later musicians wanted to produce it .
SENTENCE and by the time jimi hendrix came around .
SENTENCE well ,  essentially ,  hendrix reinvented the electric guitar ,  in the sense that he created amazing effects and vibrations that changed the sound of rock  n  roll completely .
SENTENCE so eventually ,  people tried to improve on les paul's model ,  well ,  to modify it i should say .
QUESTION what does the professor say about the sailors who were stationed in hawaii after the spanish american war
OPTION they helped popularize steel guitar music among the people of hawaii 0
OPTION they were among the first to play the steel guitar in musical groups 0
OPTION they introduced the steel guitar to the mainland united states 1
OPTION they altered the second of the steel guitar by redesigning its slide 0
