SENTENCE yeah ,  i need to find a review .
SENTENCE it's for my english class .
SENTENCE we have to find reviews of the play we are reading .
SENTENCE but they have to be from when the play was first performed ,  so i need to know when that was and i suppose i should start with newspaper reviews and you want contemporary reviews .
SENTENCE what's the name of the play ?
SENTENCE it's happy strangers .
SENTENCE it was written in 1962 and we are supposed to write about its influence on american theatre and show why it's been so important .
SENTENCE well ,  that certainly explains why your professor wants you to read some of those old reviews .
SENTENCE the critiques really tore the play to pieces when it opened .
SENTENCE it's so controversial .
SENTENCE nobody had ever seen anything like it on the stage .
SENTENCE really ?
SENTENCE is that a big deal ?
SENTENCE oh ,  sure .
SENTENCE of course the critics  reaction made some people kind of curious about it .
SENTENCE they wanted to see what was causing all the fuss .
SENTENCE in fact ,  we were on vacation in new york .
SENTENCE oh ,  i had to be ,  oh ,  around 16 or so ,  and my parents took me to see it .
SENTENCE that would've been about 1965 .
SENTENCE so that was the year it premiered ?
SENTENCE great !
SENTENCE but uh ,  newspapers from back then aren't online ,  so ,  how do i well ,  we have copies of old newspapers in the basement ,  and all the major papers publish reference guides to their articles ,  reviews ,  etc .
SENTENCE you will find them in the reference stacks in the back .
SENTENCE but i start with 1964 ,  i think the play had been running for a little while when i saw it .
SENTENCE how do you like it ?
SENTENCE i mean just two characters on the stage hanging around basically doing nothing .
SENTENCE well ,  i was impressed .
SENTENCE the actors were famous ,  and besides it was my first time in a real theatre .
SENTENCE but you are right .
SENTENCE it was definitely different from many plays that we read in high school .
SENTENCE of course ,  in a small town the assignments are pretty traditional .
SENTENCE yeah ,  i've only read it but it doesn't seem like it would be much fun to watch .
SENTENCE the story doesn't progress in any sort of logical matter ,  doesn't have real ending either ,  just stops .
SENTENCE honestly ,  you know ,  i thought it was kind of slow and boring .
SENTENCE oh ,  well i guess you might think that .
SENTENCE but when i saw it back then it was anything but boring .
SENTENCE some parts were really funny ,  but i remember crying too .
SENTENCE but i'm not sure just reading it .
SENTENCE you know ,  they've done this play at least once on campus .
SENTENCE i'm sure there is a tape of the play in our video library .
SENTENCE you might want to borrow it .
SENTENCE that's a good idea .
SENTENCE i'll have a better idea of what i really think of it before i read those reviews .
SENTENCE i'm sure you will be surprised that anyone ever found it radical .
SENTENCE but you will see why it is still powerful ,  dramatically speaking .
SENTENCE well ,  there must be something about it ,  or the professor wouldn't have assigned it .
SENTENCE i'm sure i'll figure it out .
QUESTION what does the woman say about her experience seeing a performance of happy strangers when she was younger
OPTION it was the first play she had seen performed professionally 1
OPTION she saw it against the wishes of her parents 0
OPTION she was surprised at how traditional the performance was 0
OPTION she had a variety of emotional reactions to the play 1
