SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE another ancient greek philosopher we need to discuss is aristotle aristotle's ethical theory .
SENTENCE what aristotle's ethical theory is all about is this  he's trying to show you how to be happy what true happiness is .
SENTENCE now ,  why is he interested in human happiness ?
SENTENCE it's not just because it's something that all people want to aim for .
SENTENCE it's more than that .
SENTENCE but to get there we need to first make a very important distinction .
SENTENCE let me introduce a couple of technical terms  extrinsic value and intrinsic value .
SENTENCE to understand aristotle's interest in happiness ,  you need to understand this distinction .
SENTENCE some things we aim for and value ,  not for themselves but for what they bring about in addition to themselves .
SENTENCE if i value something as a means to something else ,  then it has what we will call  extrinsic value .
SENTENCE other things we desire and hold to be valuable for themselves alone .
SENTENCE if we value something not as a means to something else ,  but for its own sake ,  let us say that it has  intrinsic value .
SENTENCE exercise .
SENTENCE there may be some people who value exercise for itself ,  but i don't .
SENTENCE i value exercise because if i exercise ,  i tend to stay healthier than i would if i didn't .
SENTENCE so i desire to engage in exercise and i value exercise extrinsically  .
SENTENCE not for its own sake ,  but as a means to something beyond it .
SENTENCE it brings me good health .
SENTENCE health .
SENTENCE why do i value good health ?
SENTENCE well ,  here it gets a little more complicated for me .
SENTENCE um ,  health is important for me because i can't  .
SENTENCE do other things i want to do  play music ,  teach philosophy if i'm ill .
SENTENCE so health is important to me has value to me as a means to a productive life .
SENTENCE but health is also important to me because i just kind of like to be healthy it feels good .
SENTENCE it's pleasant to be healthy ,  unpleasant not to be .
SENTENCE so to some degree i value health both for itself and as a means to something else  productivity .
SENTENCE it's got extrinsic and intrinsic value for me .
SENTENCE then there's some things that are just valued for themselves .
SENTENCE i'm a musician ,  not a professional musician  i just play a musical instrument for fun .
SENTENCE why do i value playing music ?
SENTENCE well ,  like most amateur musicians ,  i only play because ,  well ,  i just enjoy it .
SENTENCE it's something that's an end in itself .
SENTENCE now ,  something else i value is teaching .
SENTENCE why ?
SENTENCE well ,  it brings in a modest income ,  but i could make more money doing other things .
SENTENCE i'd do it even if they didn't pay me .
SENTENCE i just enjoy teaching .
SENTENCE in that sense it's an end to itself .
SENTENCE but teaching's not something that has intrinsic value for all people and that's true generally .
SENTENCE most things that are enjoyed in and of themselves vary from person to person .
SENTENCE some people value teaching intrinsically ,  but others don't .
SENTENCE so how does all this relate to human happiness ?
SENTENCE well ,  aristotle asks  is there something that all human beings value  .
SENTENCE and value only intrinsically ,  for its own sake and only for its own sake ?
SENTENCE if you could find such a thing ,  that would be the universal final good ,  or truly the ultimate purpose or goal for all human beings .
SENTENCE aristotle thought the answer was yes .
SENTENCE what is it ?
SENTENCE happiness .
SENTENCE everyone will agree ,  he argues ,  that happiness is the ultimate end to be valued for itself and really only for itself .
SENTENCE for what other purpose is there in being happy ?
SENTENCE what does it yield ?
SENTENCE the attainment of happiness becomes the ultimate or highest good for aristotle .
SENTENCE the next question that aristotle raises is  what is happiness ?
SENTENCE we all want it  we all desire it  we all seek it .
SENTENCE it's the goal we have in life .
SENTENCE but what is it ?
SENTENCE how do we find it ?
SENTENCE here he notes ,  with some frustration ,  people disagree .
SENTENCE but he does give us a couple of criteria ,  or features ,  to keep in mind as we look for what true human happiness is .
SENTENCE true human happiness should be ,  as he puts it ,  complete .
SENTENCE complete in that it's all we require .
SENTENCE well ,  true human happiness  .
SENTENCE if you had that ,  what else do you need ?
SENTENCE nothing .
SENTENCE and ,  second ,  true happiness should be something that i can obtain on my own .
SENTENCE i shouldn't have to rely on other people for it .
SENTENCE many people value fame and seek fame .
SENTENCE fame for them becomes the goal .
SENTENCE but ,  according to aristotle ,  this won't work either ,  because fame depends altogether too much on other people .
SENTENCE i can't get it on my own ,  without help from other people .
SENTENCE in the end ,  aristotle says that true happiness is the exercise of reason a life of intellectual contemplation  .
SENTENCE of thinking .
SENTENCE so let's see how he comes to that .
QUESTION why is happiness central to aristotle's theory
OPTION because it is so difficult for people to attain 0
OPTION because it is valued for its own sake by all people 1
OPTION because it is a means to a productive life 0
OPTION because most people agree about what happiness is 0
