SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE we've been talking till now about the two basic needs of a biologicalcommunity   an energy source to produce organic materials ,  you knowuh ,  food for the organisms ,  and the waste recycling or breakdown ofmaterials back into inorganic molecules ,  and about how all this requiresphotosynthesis when green plants or microbes convert sunlight intoenergy ,  and also requires microorganisms ,  bacteria ,  to secrete chemicalsthat break down or recycle the organic material to complete the cycle .
SENTENCE so ,  now we are done with this chapter of the textbook ,  we can justreview for the weekly quiz and move on to the next chapter ,  right ?
SENTENCE well , not so fast .
SENTENCE first ,  i 'd like to talk about some discoveries that havechallenged one of these fundamental assumptions about what you needin order to have a biological community .
SENTENCE and ,  well ,  there actually were quite a few surprises .
SENTENCE it all began in 1977 with the exploration of hydrothermal vents on the ocean floor .
SENTENCE hydrothermal vents are cracks in the earth's surface that occur ,  well ,  the ones we are taiking about here are found deep at the bottom of the ocean .
SENTENCE and these vents on the ocean floor ,  they release this incredibly hot water ,  3 to 4 times the temperature that you boil water at ,  because this water has been heated deep within the earth .
SENTENCE well about 3  years ago ,  researchers sent a deep sea vessel to explore the ocean's depth ,  about 3 kilometers down ,  way deep to the ocean floor ,  no one had ever explored that far down before .
SENTENCE nobody expected there to be any life down there because of the conditions .
SENTENCE first of all ,  sunlight doesn't reach that far down so it  's totally dark .
SENTENCE there couldn't be any plant or animal life since there's no sunlight ,  no source of energy to make food .
SENTENCE if there was any life at all ,  it'd just be some bacteria breaking down any dead materials that might have fallen to the bottom of the ocean  .
SENTENCE and ?
SENTENCE and what about the water pressure ?
SENTENCE didn  't we talk before about how the deeper down into the ocean you go ,  the greater the pressure ?
SENTENCE excellent point !
SENTENCE and not only the extreme pressure ,  but also the extreme temperature of the water around these vents .
SENTENCE if the lack of sunlight didn't rule out the existence of a biological community down there then these factors certainly would ,  or so they thought .
SENTENCE so you are telling us they did find organisms that could live under those conditions ?
SENTENCE they did indeed ,  something like 3   different species .
SENTENCE but   but how could that be ?
SENTENCE i mean without sunlight ,  no energy ,  no no  what they discovered was that microorganisms ,  bacteria ,  had taken over both functions of the biological community   the recycling of waste materials and the production of energy .
SENTENCE they were the energy source .
SENTENCE you see ,  it turns out that certain microorganisms are chemosynthetic   they don't need sunlight because they take their energy from chemical reactions .
SENTENCE so ,  as i said ,  unlike green plants which are photosynthetic and get their energy from sunlight ,  these bacteria that they found at the ocean floor ,  these are chemosynthetic ,  which means that they get their energy from chemical reactions .
SENTENCE how does this work ?
SENTENCE as we said ,  these hydrothermal vents are releasing into the ocean depth this intensely hot water and here is the thing ,  this hot water contains a chemical called hydrogen sulfide ,  and also a gas  ,  carbon dioxide .
SENTENCE now these bacteria actually combine the hydrogen sulfide with the carbon dioxide and this chemical reaction is what produces organic material which is the food for larger organisms .
SENTENCE the researchers had never seen anything like it before .
SENTENCE wow !
SENTENCE so just add a chemical to a gas ,  and bingo ,  you  've got a food supply ?
SENTENCE not just that !
SENTENCE w hat was even more surprising were all the large organisms that lived down there .
SENTENCE the most distinctive of these was something called the tube worm .
SENTENCE here ,  let me show you a picture  .
SENTENCE the tube of the tube worm is really ,  really long .
SENTENCE they can be up to one and a half meters long  ,  and these tubes are attached to the ocean floor ,  pretty weird looking ,  huh ?
SENTENCE and another thing ,  the tube worm has no mouth or digestive organs .
SENTENCE so you are asking how does it eat ?
SENTENCE well ,  they have these special organs that collect the hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide and then transfer it to another organ ,  where billions of bacteria live .
SENTENCE these bacteria that live inside the tube worms ,  the tube worms provide them with hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide .
SENTENCE and the bacteria ,  well the bacteria kind of feed the tube worms through chemosynthesis ,  remember ,  that chemical reaction i described earlier .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about the researchers'sreaction to the biological community discovered on the ocean floor
OPTION they were surprised at the large variety of organisms living near hydrothermal vents 1
OPTION they were surprised to find any bacteria living without sunlight 0
OPTION they were disappointed at not finding any animal life 0
OPTION they could not agree on the significance of the data that they collected 0
