SENTENCE hi mathew ,  i'm glad you could come in today .
SENTENCE you've been observing mr.  grable's third grade class for your approaches to education paper ,  right ?
SENTENCE um ,  yes .
SENTENCE i go over to johnson elementary school ,  you know ,  to watch mr.  grable teach the children in class .
SENTENCE it's been amazing ,  i mean ,  i'm just learning so much from just watching him .
SENTENCE i'm so glad the classroom observations are a requirement for the education program .
SENTENCE i mean it's like the best thing ever to prepare you to be a good teacher .
SENTENCE well ,  i'm glad to see you feel that way ,  mathew .
SENTENCE you know ,  that's the goal .
SENTENCE so ,  i've been reading over your observation notes and i'm quite interested in what's going on ,  in particular with the astronomy unit he's been teaching .
SENTENCE it seems that mr.  grable has mastered the interdisciplinary approach to teaching that we've been talking about in class .
SENTENCE oh !
SENTENCE ok ,  yeah ,  so like when he was teaching them astronomy ,  he didn't just teach them the names of the planets ,  he used it as a way to teach mythology .
SENTENCE really !
SENTENCE so ,  how did he do that ?
SENTENCE well ,  some of the students could already name the planets ,  but they didn't know that the names had any meaning   the stories behind them .
SENTENCE he introduced greek and roman mythology as a way of explaining .
SENTENCE like ,  you know ,  how like jupiter's the biggest planet ,  right ,  and how jupiter was the name of the king of the gods in roman mythology ,  right ?
SENTENCE so since jupiter ,  the planet ,  is the largest planet in our solar system ,  it's like the king of the planets ,  like jupiter was the king of all the gods .
SENTENCE oh ,  mathew ,  that's a great example .
SENTENCE yeah !
SENTENCE and each student chose a planet and then did research on it to write a report and make a presentation .
SENTENCE they went to the library to do the research ,  then they made presentations about the planet they chose .
SENTENCE so ,  in one science unit ,  in which the focus was astronomy ,  the students also learned about the literature of greek and roman mythology ,  used research skills in the library ,  wrote a report and practiced their oral presentation skills .
SENTENCE exactly !
SENTENCE he used this one topic to teach third graders all that stuff   how to use the books in the library ,  to write reports ,  and even how to speak in public .
SENTENCE plus they had a great time doing it .
SENTENCE you know ,  mathew ,  this is just what we've been talking about in our class .
SENTENCE i'm sure everyone can learn something from your experience .
SENTENCE you know ,  mathew ,  i'd love for you to talk about this astronomy unit in class on wednesday .
SENTENCE really ?
SENTENCE um   cause i don't really think i'll have any time to write my paper by then .
SENTENCE oh ,  you won't need to write anything new just yet .
SENTENCE for wednesday ,  use your class observation notes and explain the things we've discussed today .
SENTENCE ok ,  that sounds all right .
QUESTION what will matthew probably do in next wednesday's class
OPTION hand in his assignment early 0
OPTION try to start a study group 0
OPTION make a presentation to the class 1
OPTION choose a topic for his paper 0
