SENTENCE now we can't really talk about fairy tales without first talking about folktales because there's a strong connection between these two genres ,  these two types of stories .
SENTENCE in fact ,  many fairy tales started out as folktales .
SENTENCE so ,  what's a folktale ?
SENTENCE how would you characterize them ?
SENTENCE jeff ?
SENTENCE well ,  they are old stories ,  traditional stories .
SENTENCE they were passed down orally within cultures from generation to generation ,  so they changed a lot over time .
SENTENCE i mean ,  every storyteller ,  or ,  maybe every town ,  might have had a slightly different version of the same folktale .
SENTENCE that's right .
SENTENCE there's local difference .
SENTENCE and that's why we say folktales are communal .
SENTENCE by communal ,  we mean they reflect the traits and the concerns of a particular community at a particular time .
SENTENCE so essentially the same tale could be told in different communities ,  with certain aspects of the tale adapted to fit the specific community .
SENTENCE um ,  not the plot ,  the details of what happens in the story would remain constant .
SENTENCE that was the thread that held the tale together .
SENTENCE but all the other elements ,  like the location or characters ,  might be modified for each audience .
SENTENCE okay .
SENTENCE so what about fairy tales ?
SENTENCE th they also are found in most cultures ,  but how are they different from folktales ?
SENTENCE i guess the first question is  what is a fairy tale ?
SENTENCE and don't anyone say  a story with a fairy in it  because we all know that very few fairy tales actually have those tiny magical creatures in them .
SENTENCE but ,  what else can we say about them ?
SENTENCE mary .
SENTENCE well ,  they seem to be less realistic than folktales like they have something improbable happening   a frog turning into a prince ,  say .
SENTENCE oh ,  that's another common element ,  royalty   a prince or princess .
SENTENCE and fairy tales all seem to take place in a location that's nowhere and everywhere at the same time .
SENTENCE what's the line up ?
SENTENCE how do all those stories start ?
SENTENCE once upon a time ,  in a faraway land   oh ,  in the case of folktales ,  each storyteller would specify a particular location and time ,  though the time and location would differ for different storytellers .
SENTENCE with fairy tales ,  however ,  the location is generally unspecified ,  no matter who the storyteller is .
SENTENCE that land far away   we'll come back to this point in a few minutes .
SENTENCE um   i ,  i thought that a fairy tale was just a written version of an oral folktale .
SENTENCE well ,  not exactly ,  though that is how many fairy tales developed .
SENTENCE for example ,  in the late 18th century ,  the grimm brothers traveled throughout what's now germany ,  recording local folktales .
SENTENCE these were eventually published as fairy tales ,  but not before undergoing a process of evolution .
SENTENCE now ,  a number of things happen when an oral tale gets written down .
SENTENCE first ,  the language changes .
SENTENCE it becomes more formal ,  more standard   some might say ,   less colorful  .
SENTENCE it's like the difference in your language depending on whether you are talking to someone ,  or writing them a letter .
SENTENCE second ,  when an orally transmitted story is written down ,  an authoritative version with a recognized author is created .
SENTENCE the communal aspect gets lost .
SENTENCE the tale no longer belongs to the community .
SENTENCE it belongs to the world ,  so to speak .
SENTENCE because of this ,  elements like place and time can no longer be tailored to suit a particular audience .
SENTENCE so they become less identifiable ,  more generalizable to any audience .
SENTENCE on the other hand ,  descriptions of characters and settings can be developed more completely .
SENTENCE in folktales ,  characters might be identified by a name ,  but you wouldn't know anything more about them .
SENTENCE but in fairy tales ,  people no longer have to remember plots .
SENTENCE they're written down ,  right ?
SENTENCE so more energy can be put into other elements of the story like character and setting .
SENTENCE so you get more details about the characters ,  about where the action takes place ,  what people's houses were like ,  ur ,  whether they're small cabins or grand palaces .
SENTENCE and it's worth investing that energy because the story ,  now in book form ,  isn't in danger of being lost .
SENTENCE those details won't be forgotten .
SENTENCE if a folktale isn't repeated by each generation ,  it may be lost for all time .
SENTENCE but with a fairy tale ,  it's always there in a book ,  waiting to be discovered ,  again and again .
SENTENCE another interesting difference involves the change in audience .
SENTENCE who the stories are meant for ?
SENTENCE contrary to what many people believe today ,  folktales were originally intended for adults ,  not for children .
SENTENCE so why is it that fairy tales seem targeted toward children nowadays ?
QUESTION what does the professor mean when he says that folktales are communal
OPTION they vary little form one community to another 0
OPTION they serve to strengthen tiles among individuals within a community 0
OPTION they relate important events in the history of a community 0
OPTION they can be adapted to meet the needs of a community 1
