SENTENCE let's get started .
SENTENCE um ,  last time we were talking about the need for advertising .
SENTENCE now ,  let's look at how you can successfully call attention to the service or product you want to sell .
SENTENCE to succeed ,  you've got to develop a systematic approach .
SENTENCE if you don't come up with a system ,  um ,  a plan ,  you risk making decisions that waste money ,  or even drive away potential customers .
SENTENCE does a systematic advertising plan look like ?
SENTENCE well ,  it covers what we call    the  four ms  .
SENTENCE the  four ms   market ,  media ,  money ,  message .
SENTENCE all are important areas to focus on when creating your advertising plan .
SENTENCE we will look at them one by one .
SENTENCE the first step is to look at your market ,  that's the people who might become customers ,  buyers of your service or product .
SENTENCE you need to know all about your possible customers  who are they  what age group are they ?
SENTENCE what do they like ,  or dislike ?
SENTENCE how do they shop ?
SENTENCE so ,  you got that ?
SENTENCE a market is a group of potential customers .
SENTENCE next ,  media  obviously the major media are television ,  radio ,  newspapers ,  magazines ,  um ,  billboards ,  and so forth .
SENTENCE there are all avenues of communication .
SENTENCE and you need to figure out  which media you should advertise through ?
SENTENCE which media will reach your intended audience    your market ?
SENTENCE so ,  you do research ,  trying to determine which media will reach the most potential customers for the lowest cost .
SENTENCE for instance ,  if you have a product ,  that    oh   say teachers would like ,  then teachers are your market .
SENTENCE so you ask yourself  what magazines do the majority of teachers read ?
SENTENCE what tv programs do teachers watch ?
SENTENCE do teachers listen to much radio ?
SENTENCE at what times of the day ?
SENTENCE say ,  now your research turns up two magazines that teachers read .
SENTENCE and it also shows that the majority of teachers   say ages twenty to thirty   read the magazine about classroom activities .
SENTENCE while most teachers older than that read the other magazine ,  the one about ,  oh ,  let's say  educational psychology  .
SENTENCE you think your product will appeal most to teachers ages twenty to thirty ,  so you decide to put your advertisement in their favorite magazine ,  the one about classroom activities .
SENTENCE you don't waste money advertising in the  educational psychology  magazine ,  you know the one that the younger teachers generally don't read .
SENTENCE and since you're reaching the majority of the teachers in your target age group ,  you're probably spending your money well ,  which bring us to the third'm    money .
SENTENCE you have an advertising budget to spend ,  but how do you to spend it wisely .
SENTENCE again ,  research is the key .
SENTENCE good research gives you facts ,  facts that can help you decide ,  well ,  as we already mentioned ,  decide the right market to target ,  and the best media to use .
SENTENCE but also  when to advertise ?
SENTENCE or or how to get the best rates ?
SENTENCE like ,  maybe you're advertising sports equipment ,  and you have been spending most of your budget during the holiday season when people buy gifts for each other .
SENTENCE now ,  in theory ,  that would seem a great time to advertise ,  but maybe research shows that you're wrong ,  that the customers who buy sports equipment tend not to give it as a holiday gift ,  but want to use it themselves .
SENTENCE in that case ,  advertising during a different season of the year might give you better results .
SENTENCE and ,  um ,  maybe at even lower ,  non holiday rates ,  so you actually save money .
SENTENCE but you need to get the facts  facts that come from good research to be certain and know for sure that you're getting your money's worth .
SENTENCE ok ,  finally ,  there is your message  what you want to say about your product ?
SENTENCE why buying it will make the customer's life easier ,  or safer or better somehow .
SENTENCE whatever the message is ,  make sure you get it right .
SENTENCE let me give you an example of not getting it right ,  ha  ha  ha   you are going to love this one  there was this soup shop ,  the soup was really tasty ,  but there weren't a lot of customers .
SENTENCE the owner thought that maybe if they gave something away for free with each purchase ,  then more people would come buy soup .
SENTENCE so they got some cheap socks ,  and they advertised to give a pair away with each bowl of soup .
SENTENCE but ,  then even fewer people came to the restaurant .
SENTENCE well ,  you can imagine why .
SENTENCE people started to associate the soup with feet  they began to imagine the soup smelled like feet .
SENTENCE the advertising message ,  soup means free socks ,  was a bad choice  it was a waste of money .
SENTENCE and worse ,  it caused the loss of customers .
SENTENCE now ,  i want everyone to get into small groups and come up with some examples ,  not of good advertising messages ,  but of truly disastrous ones .
SENTENCE think of real examples or make some up ,  and talk about the reasons those messages are unsuccessful .
SENTENCE and then we'll get back together and share .
QUESTION why does the professor talk about teachers
OPTION to emphasize the advantages of marketing products to specific groups of people 0
OPTION to illustrate how to select the most appropriate media for advertising a product 1
OPTION to prove that it is not necessary to spend money on advertisements 0
OPTION to show how a poorly communicated message can ruin a business 0
