SENTENCE ok ,  let 's see .
SENTENCE right ,  modern stagings of a shakespearian classic .
SENTENCE well ,  like i told you last week ,  i think that's a great topic for you paper .
SENTENCE so the title would be something like    uh    i am not really sure ,  probably something like 2 thyes ,  i like that .
SENTENCE straightforward and to the point .
SENTENCE so how is the research going ?
SENTENCE well ,  that's what i came to talk to you about .
SENTENCE i was wondering if you happen to have a copy of the peter brook production of a midsummer night's dream in your video collection .
SENTENCE i've been looking for it everywhere and i am having a really hard time that's because it doesn't exist .
SENTENCE you mean in your collection  ?
SENTENCE or at all ?
SENTENCE i mean at all .
SENTENCE that particular production was never filmed or recorded .
SENTENCE oh no .
SENTENCE i had no idea .
SENTENCE from what i read ,  that production ,  like ,  it influenced every other production of the play that came after it .
SENTENCE so i just assumed it had been filmed or videotaped .
SENTENCE oh ,  it definitely was a landmark production .
SENTENCE and it's not like it ran for just a week ,  but either it was never filmed or if it was the film's been lost .
SENTENCE and it 's ironic because there's even a film about the making of the production ,  but none of the production itself .
SENTENCE so now what do i do ?
SENTENCE if there is no video .
SENTENCE well ,  think about it .
SENTENCE this is the most important 2 th century staging of a midsummer night's dream ,  right ?
SENTENCE but how can i write about brook's interpretation of the play if i can't see his just because there's no recording doesn't mean you can't figure out how it influenced other productions .
SENTENCE yeah ,  i guess there's enough material around ,  but it will be a challenge .
SENTENCE true .
SENTENCE but think about it ,  you are writing about dramatic arts ,  the theater ,  and that 's the nature of theater ,  isn't it ?
SENTENCE you mean because it is live ,  when the performance is finished    that's it .
SENTENCE unless it 's filmed ,  it's gone .
SENTENCE but that doesn't mean we can't study it .
SENTENCE and of course some students in this class are writing about productions in the 19th century ,  there are no videos of those .
SENTENCE you know ,  one of the challenges for people who study theater is to find way of talking about something that 's really so transient ,  about something that ,  in a sense ,  doesn't exist .
QUESTION what do the speakers say about peter brook's production of a midsummer night's dream
OPTION it influenced subsequent productions 1
OPTION it was performed only a few times 0
OPTION written accounts of it are difficult to find 0
OPTION film versions of it probably do not exist 1
