SENTENCE as we've discussed ,  birds are apparently descendants of dinosaurs and shared many commonalities with some dinosaur species ,  like um feathers and maybe even flight and of course egg laid .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE so ,  many paleontologists ,  myself included ,  have wondered about other similarities between dinosaurs and birds .
SENTENCE since adult dinosaur fossils have sometimes been discovered near or on top of nests ,  we've been looking at the dinosaur parenting behavior .
SENTENCE parenting behavior ,  well ,  that sounds so gentle and caring .
SENTENCE but dinosaurs were ferocious reptiles and reptiles don't take care of their young ,  do they ?
SENTENCE well ,  some reptiles incubate their eggs ,  crocodiles do .
SENTENCE and as for popular attitudes towards dinosaurs well ,  take the oviraptor for instance .
SENTENCE in the 192's ,  a paleontologist discovered the fossil remains of a small dinosaur near a nest containing eggs .
SENTENCE he assumed the dinosaur was stealing the eggs ,  so he named it oviraptor that means egg thief in latin ,  which fueled the generally negative public image of such dinosaurs .
SENTENCE but by the 199's ,  other experts had convincingly made the case that instead of robbing the nest  the oviraptor was probably taking care of the eggs .
SENTENCE you see ,  dinosaurs  closest living relatives   birds and crocodiles   display nesting behavior .
SENTENCE and dinosaur fossils have been found in postures that we now believe to indicate brooding behavior ,  that is ,  sitting on the eggs until they hatch .
SENTENCE so we are curious about the type of care dinosaurs gave to their young .
SENTENCE and we'd like to figure out which dinosaur parent ,  the male or the female gave the care .
SENTENCE shouldn't the behavior of crocodiles and birds give us some clues then ?
SENTENCE well ,  with crocodiles ,  it is the female who guards the nest ,  and with birds ,  it depends on the species ,  it can be the male or the female that takes care the eggs ,  or both .
SENTENCE in over 9  percent of all bird species ,  both parents take care of the eggs and the young birds .
SENTENCE but sometimes it's just the male ?
SENTENCE well ,  exclusive care by the male parent is much less common ,  but it does occur .
SENTENCE now ,  for animals other than birds ,  the care of young by both parents is pretty unusual in the animal kingdom .
SENTENCE males contribute to parental care in fewer than five percent of all mammalian species .
SENTENCE it's even less frequent among reptiles .
SENTENCE and exclusive care by the male is very rare .
SENTENCE so researchers have wondered about the evolution of male parenting behavior in birds for quite some time .
SENTENCE and now there's research showing that for some of the birds  dinosaur relatives ,  it's likely that the male parent was also in charge of taking care of the eggs .
SENTENCE how did they figure that out ?
SENTENCE well ,  first they looked at clutch volume ,  that's the number of eggs in the nest of crocodiles ,  birds and three types of dinosaurs ,  including oviraptors that are thought to be closely related to the dinosaur ancestors of birds .
SENTENCE so when researchers examined fossilized remains of nests ,  they found that the dinosaurs had larger clutch volumes ,  more eggs in the nests that is ,  than most of the crocodiles and birds that were studied .
SENTENCE but ,  and this is important ,  their clutch volumes matched those of birds that have only male parental care .
SENTENCE you see ,  bird species in which only the males take care of the nest tend to have the largest clutches of eggs .
SENTENCE so what's the connection between bird and dinosaur behavior ?
SENTENCE well ,  researchers now believe ,  because of this study ,  that the male parenting behavior of these birds might have its origins in the behavior of dinosaurs .
SENTENCE based only on evidence of clutch volume size ,  the number of eggs ?
SENTENCE no ,  there's more .
SENTENCE they also examined the fossilized bones of those three types of dinosaurs that were found on or near nests to determine their sex .
SENTENCE you see ,  adult female birds during egg production produce a layer of spongy bone tissue inside certain long bones .
SENTENCE and so did female dinosaurs of the kinds that were investigated .
SENTENCE this spongy tissue serves as a source of calcium for eggshell formation .
SENTENCE but when the dinosaur fossils were examined ,  there were no spongy bone deposits .
SENTENCE meaning that those dinosaurs on the nests were probably adult males who wouldn't have needed calcium for making eggshells .
SENTENCE exactly .
SENTENCE and then there's this  birds like the kiwi ,  the ostrich and the emu  they share certain physical characteristics with these dinosaurs .
SENTENCE and interestingly ,  they also show a consistent pattern of nest care by the male .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about crocodiles
OPTION they provide fewer clues about dinosaur nesting behavior than birds do 1
OPTION they share many behavioral characteristic with birds like the ostrich and kiwi 0
OPTION they have larger clutch volumes than most dinosaurs had 0
OPTION the female and the male work together to guard their nest 0
