SENTENCE continuing our discussion of desert lakes ,  now i want to focus on what's known as the  empty quarter  .
SENTENCE the  empty quarter  is a huge area of sand that covers about a quarter of the arabian peninsula .
SENTENCE today it's pretty desolate ,  barren and extremely hot .
SENTENCE but there've been times in the past when monsoon rains soaked the empty quarter and turned it from a desert into grassland that was dotted with lakes and home to various animals .
SENTENCE there were actually two periods of rain and lake formation  the first one began about 37 ,     years ago  and the second one dates from about 1  ,     years ago .
SENTENCE female student  excuse me ,  professor .
SENTENCE but i'm confused .
SENTENCE why would lakes form in the desert ?
SENTENCE it's just sand ,  after all .
SENTENCE lecturer  good question !
SENTENCE we know from modern day desert lakes ,  like lake eyre in south australia ,  that under the right conditions ,  lakes do form in the desert .
SENTENCE but the empty quarter lakes disappeared thousands of years ago .
SENTENCE they left behind their beds or basins as limestone formations that we can still see today .
SENTENCE they look like low lying ,  white or grey buttes ,  long ,  narrow hills with flat tops ,  barely a meter high .
SENTENCE a recent study of some of the formations presents some new theories about the area's past .
SENTENCE keep in mind though that this study only looked at 19 formations .
SENTENCE and about a thousand have been documented .
SENTENCE so there's a lot more work to be done .
SENTENCE according to the study ,  two factors were important for lake formation in the empty quarter  first the rains that fell there were torrential .
SENTENCE so it would've been impossible for all the water to soak into the ground .
SENTENCE second ,  as you know ,  sand dunes contain other types of particles ,  besides sand ,  including clay and silt .
SENTENCE now ,  when the rain fell ,  water ran down the sides of the dunes ,  carrying clay and silt particles with it .
SENTENCE and wherever these particles settled ,  they formed a pan ,  a layer that water couldn't penetrate .
SENTENCE once this pan formed ,  further run off collected ,  and formed a lake .
SENTENCE now ,  the older lakes ,  about half the formations ,  the ones that started forming 37    years ago ,  the limestone formations we see ,  they're up to a kilometer long ,  but only a few meters wide ,  and they're scattered along the desert floor ,  in valleys between the dunes .
SENTENCE so ,  the theory is ,  the lakes formed there on the desert floor ,  in these long narrow valleys .
SENTENCE and we know ,  because of what we know about similar ancient desert lakes ,  we know that the lakes didn't last very long ,  from a few months to a few years on average .
SENTENCE as for the more recent lakes ,  the ones from 1     years ago ,  well ,  they seemed to have been smaller ,  and so may have dried up more quickly .
SENTENCE another difference ,  very important today for distinguishing between older lake beds and newer ones ,  is the location of the limestone formations .
SENTENCE the more recent beds are high up in the dunes .
SENTENCE why these differences ?
SENTENCE well ,  there are some ideas about that ,  and they have to do with the shapes of the sand dunes ,  when the lakes were formed .
SENTENCE 37    years ago ,  the dunes were probably nicely rounded at the top ,  so the water just ran right down their sides to the desert floor .
SENTENCE but there were thousands of years of wind between the two rainy periods ,  reshaping the dunes .
SENTENCE so ,  during the second rainy period ,  the dunes were kind of chopped up at the top ,  full of hollows and ridges ,  and these hollows would've captured the rain right there on the top .
SENTENCE now ,  in a grassland of lake ecosystem ,  we'd expect to find fossils from a variety of animals ,  and numerous fossils have been found at least at these particular sites .
SENTENCE but ,  where did these animals come from ?
SENTENCE well ,  the theory that has been suggested is that they migrated in from nearby habitats where they were already living .
SENTENCE then as the lakes dried up ,  they died out .
SENTENCE the study makes a couple of interesting points about the fossils ,  which i hope will be looked at in future studies .
SENTENCE at older lake sites ,  there's fossil remains from hippopotamuses ,  water buffalo ,  animals that spend much of their lives standing in water ,  and also ,  fossils of cattle .
SENTENCE however ,  at the sites of the more recent lakes ,  there 's only cattle fossils ,  additional evidence for geologists that these lakes were probably smaller ,  shallower ,  because cattle only use water for drinking .
SENTENCE so they survive on much less .
SENTENCE interestingly ,  there are clams and snail shells  but ,  no fossils of fish .
SENTENCE we're not sure why .
SENTENCE maybe there was a problem with the water .
SENTENCE maybe it was too salty .
SENTENCE that's certainly true of other desert lakes .
QUESTION according to the professor , what feature of the sand dunes made the formation of the lakes possible
OPTION the degree of slope of the sides of the dunes 0
OPTION the presence of clay and silt particles in the dunes 1
OPTION the position of the dunes relative to the wind and rain 0
OPTION the narrowness of the valleys between the dunes 0
