SENTENCE ok ,  we have been talking about how throughout history ,  it was often difficult for people to give up ideas which have long been taken for granted as scientific truth ,  even if those ideas were false .
SENTENCE in astronomy ,  for example ,  the distinction between the solar system and the universe wasn't clear until modern times .
SENTENCE the ancient greeks believed that what we called the solar system was in fact the entire universe ,  and that the universe was geocentric .
SENTENCE geocentric means earth centered ,  so the geocentric view holds that the sun ,  the planets ,  and the stars ,  all revolve around the earth ,  which is stationary .
SENTENCE of course ,  we now know that the planets ,  including earth ,  revolve around the sun ,  and that the solar system is only a tiny part of the universe .
SENTENCE so ,  why did the ancient greeks believe that the earth was the center of the universe ?
SENTENCE well ,  it made sense to them .
SENTENCE observations of the sky make it appear as if the sun ,  the moon ,  and the stars all revolve around the earth everyday ,  while the earth itself stayed in one place .
SENTENCE and this view is also supported by their philosophical and religious beliefs about the origin and structure of the universe .
SENTENCE it was presented in the works of well known greek philosophers as early as the fourth century b .
SENTENCE c .
SENTENCE e .
SENTENCE ,  and the geocentric theory continue to prevail in western thought for almost 2 ,     years ,  until the 17th century .
SENTENCE now ,  what's especially interesting is that when astronomical observations were made that seemed to be inconsistent with the geocentric view ,  the ancient greeks did not really consider alternative theories .
SENTENCE it was so intuitive ,  so sensible that the earth was the center of the universe that astronomers found ways to explain those seemingly inconsistent phenomena within the geocentric view .
SENTENCE for example ,  greek astronomers made excellent ,  very accurate observations of the movements of the planets ,  but the observations revealed a bit of a problem .
SENTENCE the geocentric theory said ,  that the planets would move around the earth in one direction .
SENTENCE however ,  astronomers noticed that at times ,  several planets seem to stop moving in one direction and start moving backward in their orbits around the earth ,  and they came up with a theory that these planets themselves moved in smaller circles called epicycles as they travelled around the earth .
SENTENCE here's a picture of what they imagined .
SENTENCE you see how this epicycle theory could account for the seemingly backward motion of the planet .
SENTENCE of course ,  today we know that this appearance of backward motion is caused by the fact that earth ,  as well as other planets ,  all move in their own orbits around the sun ,  and the relative movements of the planets with respect to each other can get quite complex .
SENTENCE however ,  there were a few astronomers in greece and other places who didn't agree with the geocentric view ,  for example ,  a greek astronomer who lived in the third century b .
SENTENCE c .
SENTENCE e .
SENTENCE he proposed the theory that our planetary system might be heliocentric ,  his name was aristarchus .
SENTENCE heliocentric means sun centered ,  that the earth revolves around the sun .
SENTENCE aristarchus recognized from his calculations that the sun was much larger than the earth and other planets .
SENTENCE it was probably this discovery that led him to conclude that the universe is heliocentric .
SENTENCE i mean ,  isn't it more sensible to think that a smaller heavenly body would orbit a larger one ,  rather than the opposite ?
SENTENCE however ,  his proposition was rejected largely based on other scientific beliefs held at the time ,  which all made sense in a way even if they were incorrect .
SENTENCE let me mention two objections greeks made to aristarchus's theory .
SENTENCE first ,  they believe that everything that moves creates its own wind ,  so to speak ,  everyone has this experience when you are running ,  right ?
SENTENCE so ,  they thought that if the earth itself was moving ,  there would have to be a constant wind blowing ,  sweeping them off their feet ,  and of course there wasn't .
SENTENCE and second ,  the idea of an earth that moved didn't fit in with the ancient greeks  understanding of gravity .
SENTENCE they thought that gravity was basically a natural tendency of all things to move towards the center of the universe ,  which was the earth ,  or the center of the earth ,  so that explains why apples and other falling objects were falling straight down .
SENTENCE if the sun was at the center of the universe ,  things would fall toward the sun and away from the earth ,  which of course they didn't .
SENTENCE so these were some of the reasons they rejected the heliocentric theory .
QUESTION why does the professor discuss the epicycle theory
OPTION to explain why early astronomers started measuring the velocity of the planets 0
OPTION to explain why the astronomer aristarchus rejected the geocentric model 0
OPTION to show how early astronomers explained the apparent backward motion of some planets 1
OPTION to show that early astronomers believed that all planets moved in their own orbits around the sun 0
