SENTENCE ok ,  last time we were talking about government support for the arts .
SENTENCE who can sum up some of the main points ?
SENTENCE frank ?
SENTENCE well ,  i guess there wasn't really any ,  you know ,  official government support for the arts until the twentieth century .
SENTENCE but the first attempt the united states government made to ,  you know ,  to support the arts was the federal art project .
SENTENCE right ,  so what can you say about the project ?
SENTENCE um it was started during the depression ,  um in the 193's to employ out of work artists .
SENTENCE so was it successful ?
SENTENCE janet ?
SENTENCE what do you say ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  sure ,  it was successful .
SENTENCE i mean ,  for one thing ,  the project established a lot of uh like community art centers and galleries in places like rural areas where people hadn't really had access to the arts .
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE but didn't the government end up wasting a lot of money for art that wasn't even very good ?
SENTENCE uh some people might say that .
SENTENCE but wasn't the primary objective of the federal art project to provide jobs ?
SENTENCE that's true .
SENTENCE i mean it did provide jobs for thousands of unemployed artists .
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE but then when the united states became involved in the second world war ,  unemployment was down and it seems that these programs weren't really necessary any longer .
SENTENCE so ,  moving on ,  we don't actually see any govern well any real government involvement in the arts again until the early 196's ,  when president kennedy and other politicians started to push for major funding to support and promote the arts .
SENTENCE it was felt by a number of politicians that  well that the government had a responsibility to support the arts as sort of  oh ,  what can we say ?
SENTENCE the the soul or spirit of the country .
SENTENCE the idea was that there be a federal subsidy um uh financial assistance to artists and artistic or cultural institutions .
SENTENCE and for just those reasons ,  in 1965 ,  the national endowment for the arts was created .
SENTENCE so it was through the nea ,  the national endowment for the arts ,  um that the arts would develop ,  would be promoted throughout the nation .
SENTENCE and then individual states throughout the country started to establish their own state arts councils to help support the arts .
SENTENCE there was kind of uh cultural explosion .
SENTENCE and by the mid 197's ,  by 1974 i think ,  all fifty states had their own arts agencies ,  their own state arts councils that work with the federal government with corporations ,  artists ,  performers ,  you name it .
SENTENCE did you just say corporations ?
SENTENCE how are they involved ?
SENTENCE well ,  you see ,  corporations aren't always altruistic .
SENTENCE they might not support the arts unless well ,  unless the government made it attractive for them to do so ,  by offering corporations tax incentives to support the arts ,  that is ,  by letting corporations pay less in taxes if they were patrons of the arts .
SENTENCE um ,  the kennedy centre in washington'd .
SENTENCE c .
SENTENCE ,  you may uh maybe you've been there ,  or lincoln centre in new york .
SENTENCE both of these were built with substantial financial support from corporations .
SENTENCE and the kennedy and lincoln center's aren't the only examples .
SENTENCE many of your cultural establishments in the united states will have a plaque somewhere acknowledging the support   the money they received from whatever corporation .
SENTENCE oh ,  yes ,  janet ?
SENTENCE but aren't there a lot of people who don't think it's the government's role to support the arts ?
SENTENCE well ,  as a matter of fact ,  a lot of politicians who did not believe in government support for the arts ,  they wanted to do away with the agency entirely ,  for that very reason ,  to get rid of governmental support .
SENTENCE but they only succeeded in taking away about half the annual budget .
SENTENCE and as far as the public goes ,  well there are about as many individuals who disagree with the government support as there are those who agree .
SENTENCE in fact ,  with artists in particular ,  you have lots of artists who support and who have benefited from this agency ,  although it seems that just as many artists oppose the government agency being involved in the arts ,  for many different reasons ,  reasons like they don't want the government to control what they create .
SENTENCE in other words ,  the arguments both for and against government funding of the arts are as many and ,  and as varied as the individual styles of the artists who hold them .
QUESTION why does the professor mention the kennedy center and lincoln center
OPTION to give example s of institutions that benefit from corporate support 1
OPTION to illustrate why some artists oppose the building of cultural centers 0
OPTION to show how two centers were named after presidents who supported the arts 0
OPTION to name two art centers built by the government during the depression 0
