SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE if i ask about the earliest thing you can remember ,  i'll bet for most of you ,  your earliest memory would be from about age 3 ,  right ?
SENTENCE well ,  that's true for most adults .
SENTENCE we can't remember anything that happened before the age of 3 .
SENTENCE and this phenomenon is so widespread and well documented it has a name .
SENTENCE it is called childhood amnesia and was first documented in 1893 .
SENTENCE as i said ,  this phenomenon refers to adults not being able to remember childhood incidents .
SENTENCE it's not children trying to remember events from last month or last year .
SENTENCE of course it follows that if you can't remember an incident as a child ,  you probably won't remember it as an adult .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE so  so   so why is this ?
SENTENCE what are the reasons for childhood amnesia ?
SENTENCE well ,  once a popular explanation was that childhood memories are repressed    uh ,  the memories are disturbing so that as adults we keep them buried ,  and so we can't recall them .
SENTENCE and this is based on well ,  well ,  it's not based on ,  on ,  on  the kind of solid research and lab testing we want to talk about today .
SENTENCE so let's put that explanation aside and concentrate on just two .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE it  it could be that as children we do form memories of things prior to age 3 ,  but forget them as we get grow older ,  that's one explanation .
SENTENCE another possibility is that children younger than three lack  uh  lack some cognitive capacity for memory .
SENTENCE and that idea ,  that children are unable to form memories ,  that's been the dominant belief in psychology for the past hundred years .
SENTENCE and this idea is very much tied to two things ,  the theories of jean piaget and also to language development in children .
SENTENCE so piaget's theory of cognitive development .
SENTENCE piaget suggested that because they don't have language ,  children younger than 18 to 24 months live in the here and now ,  that is they lack the mean to symbolically represent objects and events ,  that are not physically present .
SENTENCE everybody get that ?
SENTENCE piaget proposed that young children don't have a way to represent things that aren't right in front of them .
SENTENCE that's what language does ,  right ?
SENTENCE words represent things ,  ideas .
SENTENCE once language starts to develop from about age 2 ,  they do have a system for symbolic representation and can talk about things which aren't in their immediate environment including the past .
SENTENCE of course he didn't claim that infants don't have any sort of memory ,  it's acknowledged that they can recognize some stimuli ,  like faces .
SENTENCE and for many years this model was very much in favor in psychology ,  even though memory tests were never performed on young children .
SENTENCE well ,  finally in the 198's ,  a study was done .
SENTENCE and this study showed that very young children under the age of 2 do have the capacity for recall .
SENTENCE now ,  if the children can 't talk ,  how was recall tested ?
SENTENCE well ,  that is a good question ,  since the capacity for recall has always been linked with the ability to talk .
SENTENCE so the researchers set up an experiment using imitation based tasks .
SENTENCE adults used props ,  uh ,  toys or other objects to demonstrate an action that had 2 steps .
SENTENCE the children were asked to imitate the steps immediately and then again after delays of one or more month .
SENTENCE and even after a delay ,  the children could could recall or replicate the action ,  the objects used ,  the steps involved and the order of the steps .
SENTENCE even children as young as 9 months !
SENTENCE now ,  tests showed that there was a faster rate of forgetting among the youngest children ,  but most importantly it showed that the development of recall did not depend on language development .
SENTENCE and that was an importance finding !
SENTENCE i guess i should add that the findings don't say that there was no connection  no connection between the development of language and memory .
SENTENCE there's some of evidence that being able to talk about an event does lead to having a stronger memory of that event .
SENTENCE but that does not seem to be the real issue here .
SENTENCE so ,  back to our question about the cause of childhood amnesia ,  well ,  there is something called the rate of forgetting .
SENTENCE and childhood amnesia may reflect a high rate of forgetting ,  in other words ,  children under the age of 3 do form memories and do so without language .
SENTENCE but they forget the memories at a fast rate ,  probably faster than adults do .
SENTENCE researchers have set a standard  .
SENTENCE sort of an expected rate of forgetting ,  but that expected rate was set based on the tests done on adults .
SENTENCE so what is the rate of forgetting for children under the age of 3 ?
SENTENCE we expect it to be high ,  but the tests to prove this really haven't been done yet .
QUESTION why does the professor ask student about their earliest memories
OPTION to help students relate to the topic she is about to discuss 1
OPTION to establish that people vary in the time of their earliest memory 0
OPTION to introduce the connection between language and memory 0
OPTION to point out a common th in the earliest memories of most people 0
