SENTENCE so how many of you have seen the milky way ,  the milky galaxy in the sky ?
SENTENCE you ,  you have ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  i was camping ,  and there was no moon that night ,  it was super dark .
SENTENCE anybody else ?
SENTENCE not too many .
SENTENCE isn't that strange that the milky way is the galaxy that the planet earth is in ,  and most of us have never seen it ?
SENTENCE now ,  what's the problem here ?
SENTENCE light pollution ,  right ?
SENTENCE from street lights and stuff    yes ,  especially unshielded street light ,  you know ,  ones that aren't pointed downward .
SENTENCE now ,  here's an irony ,  the buiding we are in now ,  the astronomy building not far from our observatory ,  has unshielded lights .
SENTENCE so the problem is pretty widespread .
SENTENCE it is basically beyond control ,  as far as expecting to view the night sky anywhere near city ,  i mean .
SENTENCE i have lived around here my whole life .
SENTENCE and i have never seen the milky way within city limits ,  and i probably never will .
SENTENCE there is a price for progress ,  eh ?
SENTENCE but let's think beyond light pullution ,  that's only one kind of a technological advance that has interfered with astronomical research .
SENTENCE can anyone think of another ?
SENTENCE no ?
SENTENCE ok ,  let's look at it this way ,  we don't only gain information by looking at the stars ,  for the past 7  years or so ,  we have also used radio astronomy1  ,  which lets us study radio waves from the sky .
SENTENCE how can you observe radio waves ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  tell anything about the stars from that .
SENTENCE well ,  in optical astronomy ,  using a telescope and observing the stars that way ,  we rely on visible light waves .
SENTENCE what we are seeing from earth is actually electromagnetic radiation that's coming from stars .
SENTENCE and just one part of it is visible light .
SENTENCE but there are problems with that .
SENTENCE when photons2 and light waves hit objects in our atmosphere ,  water droplets ,  oxygen and nitrogen molecules ,  dust particles and so on .
SENTENCE these objects are illuminated ,  they are lit up ,  and those things are also being lit by all our street lights ,  by the moon ,  all these ambient light .
SENTENCE and on top of that ,  when that visible radiation bounces off those molecules ,  it scatters in all directions .
SENTENCE and well ,  light from stars ,  even nearby in our own galaxy ,  doesn't stand a chance against that .
SENTENCE basically the light bouncing off all these objects close to earth is brighter than what's coming from the stars .
SENTENCE now ,  radiowaves are electromagnetic radiation that we can't see .
SENTENCE nearly all astronomical objects in space emit radio waves ,  whether nearby stars ,  objects in far away galaxies ,  they all give off radio waves .
SENTENCE and unlike visible light waves ,  these radio waves can get through the various gases and dusts in space ,  and through our own earth's atmosphere comparatively easily .
SENTENCE ok ,  then we might as well give up on optical astronomy and go with radio astronomy .
SENTENCE well ,  the thing is ,  with the radio astronomy ,  you can't just set up a telescope in you backyard and observe stars .
SENTENCE one problem is that radio waves from these far away objects ,  even though they can get through ,  are extremely faint .
SENTENCE so we need to use radio telescopes ,  specially designed to receive these waves and then ,  well ,  we can use computers to create pictures based on the information we receive .
SENTENCE that sounds cool .
SENTENCE so ,  how do they do that ?
SENTENCE well ,  it is kind of like the same way a satellite dish3 receives its signal ,  if you are familiar with that .
SENTENCE but radio telescopes are sometimes grouped together ,  is the same effect as having one big telescope to increase radio wave gathering power .
SENTENCE and they use electronics ,  quite sophisticated .
SENTENCE yeah ,  it is neat how they do it ,  but for now why don't we just stick with what we can learn from it .
SENTENCE some very important discoveries have been made by this technology ,  especially you consider that some objects in space give off radio waves but don't emit any light .
SENTENCE we have trouble discovering those sorts of bodies ,  much less studying them using just optical telescopes .
SENTENCE well ,  if the radio waves are so good at getting throught the universe ,  what's the problem ?
SENTENCE well ,  answer this .
SENTENCE how come people have to turn off their cell phones and all our electronic devices when an airplane is about to take off ?
SENTENCE the phones interfere with the radio communication at the airport ,  right ?
SENTENCE oh ,  so our radio waves here on earth interfere with the waves from space ?
SENTENCE yes ,  signal from radios ,  cell phones ,  tv stations ,  remote controls ,  you name it .
SENTENCE all these things cause interference .
SENTENCE we don't think about that as often as we think about light pollution .
SENTENCE but all those electrical gauges pollute the skies ,  just in a differen way .
QUESTION what is the professor's attitude about light pollution in cities
OPTION he feels that it should be carefully regulated 0
OPTION he believes it is unfortunate 1
OPTION he thinks astronomers have not dare enough to address the issue 0
OPTION he believes that the severity of the problem is often exaggerated 0
