SENTENCE ok ,  so the two poems we are looking at today fall into the category of    uh    medievaltimes ,  which was how long ago ?
SENTENCE almost a thousand years ago ,  right ?
SENTENCE but ,  professor ,  are you sure these are poems ?
SENTENCE i mean i thought poems were shorter  these are more like long stories .
SENTENCE i mean one of them was all about love ,  but the other one ,  the chan chan whatever it's called ,  the other one  well ,  it was all about fighting and battles .
SENTENCE i mean can both of them be considered poems ?
SENTENCE well ,  think back to the very beginning of this course .
SENTENCE remember how we ,  we define poetry ?
SENTENCE in the very broadest sense ,  we said it's written to evoke ,  to make you ,  the audience ,  have some kind of the emotional experience through the use of imagery ,  um ,  some kind of predictable rhythm .
SENTENCE and usually ,  but not always ,  there's more than one meaning implied with the words that are used .
SENTENCE let's start with the chanson poetry first .
SENTENCE that's chanson .
SENTENCE chanson poems became popular in europe ,  particularly in france ,  and the term is actually short for a longer french phrase that translates to um    uh  songs of deeds .
SENTENCE now ,  they were called songs of deeds because strangely enough ,  they were written to describe the heroic deeds or actions of warriors ,  the knights during conflicts .
SENTENCE we don't know a lot about the authors ,  it's still contested somewhat .
SENTENCE but we are pretty sure about who the chanson poems were written for .
SENTENCE that is   they were written for knights and the lords   the nobility that they served .
SENTENCE the poems were sung ,  performed by a minstrel ,  a singer who travelled from castle to castle ,  singing to the local lord and his knights .
SENTENCE uh  well ,  would someone summarize the main features of the chanson poem you read ?
SENTENCE well ,  there's a hero ,  a knight ,  who goes to battle ,  and he is admired for his courage ,  bravery and loyalty ,  loyalty to the lord he serves ,  his country and his fellow warriors in the field .
SENTENCE he's    .
SENTENCE um   he has a ,  he's a skilled fighter ,  willing to face the most extreme dangers ,  sacrificial ,  willing to sacrifice anything and everything to protect his king and country .
SENTENCE ok ,  now ,  given that the intended audience for these poems were knights and lords .
SENTENCE what can we say about the purpose of chanson poetry ?
SENTENCE what kinds of feelings was it meant to provoke ?
SENTENCE i guess they must've been really appealing to those knights and lords who were listening to them .
SENTENCE hearing the songs probably made them feel more patriotic ,  made them feel like it was a good and noble thing to serve their countries in whatever way they could .
SENTENCE good ,  we've got a pretty good picture of what the chanson hero was like .
SENTENCE now let's compare that to the hero in the other poem .
SENTENCE the other poem is an example of what's called romance poetry .
SENTENCE and the hero in the romance poem was also a knight .
SENTENCE but what made the knight in romance poetry different from the knight in chanson poetry ?
SENTENCE well ,  first the purpose of the hero's actions was different .
SENTENCE the hero in romance poetry is independent ,  purely solitary in a way ,  not like the chanson poet who was always surrounded by his fighting companions .
SENTENCE he doesn't engage in conflict to protect his lord or country .
SENTENCE he does it for the sake of adventure ,  to improve himself ,  to show he's worthy of respect and love from his lady .
SENTENCE he's very conscious of the particular rules of social behavior he has to live up to somehow .
SENTENCE and all of his actions are for the purpose of proving that he is an upright ,  moral ,  well mannered ,  well behaved individual .
SENTENCE you may have noticed that in chanson poetry ,  there isn't much about the hero's feelings .
SENTENCE the focus is on the actions ,  the deeds .
SENTENCE but the romance poetry describes a lot of the inner feelings ,  the motivations ,  psychology you could say ,  of a knight trying to improve himself ,  to better himself ,  so that he's worthy of the love of a woman .
SENTENCE what explains this difference ?
SENTENCE well ,  uh ,  digging into the historical context tells us a lot .
SENTENCE romance poetry emerged a few generations after chanson ,  and its roots were in geographic regions of france that were calmer ,  where conflict wasn't central to people's lives .
SENTENCE more peaceful times meant there was more time for education ,  travel ,  more time for reflection .
SENTENCE another name for romance poetry that's often synonymous with it is troubadour poetry .
SENTENCE troubadours were the authors of these new romance poems .
SENTENCE and we know a lot more about the troubadours than we do about the chanson authors ,  because they often had small biographical sketches added to their poems that gave pretty specific information about their social status ,  geographical location and a small outline of their career .
SENTENCE these information wasn't particularly reliable because they were sometimes based on fictitious stories of great adventure or scraped together from parts of different poems .
SENTENCE but there is enough there to squeeze or infer some facts about their social class .
SENTENCE the political climate had settled down enough so that troubadours had the luxury of being able to spend most if not all of their time ,  creating ,  crafting or composing their love songs for their audiences .
SENTENCE and yes these poems were also sung  many troubadours were able to make a living being full time poets which should tell you something about the value of that profession during medieval times .
QUESTION according to the professor , who was the intended audience for chanson poetry
OPTION lords 1
OPTION ladies 0
OPTION knights 1
OPTION troubadours 0
