SENTENCE one of the important aspects of the field of archaeology one of the things that excites me about the field is that seemingly insignificant things can suddenly change the way we think about a culture .
SENTENCE we are always making new discoveries that have the potential to challenge widely held beliefs .
SENTENCE take something like the banana ,  for example .
SENTENCE it turns out that this ordinary fruit may be forcing scientists to rewrite major parts of african history !
SENTENCE we know the bananas were introduced to africa via southeast asia .
SENTENCE and until recently ,  we thought we knew when they were introduced about 2 ,     years ago .
SENTENCE but discoveries in uganda ,  that's in eastern africa ,  are throwing that into question .
SENTENCE scientists studying soil samples there discovered evidence of bananas in sediment that was 5 ,     years old !
SENTENCE now ,  let me explain that it's not easy to find traces of ancient bananas .
SENTENCE the fruit is soft and doesn't have any hard seeds that might survive over the ages .
SENTENCE so after 5 ,     years ,  you might think there would be nothing left to study .
SENTENCE well ,  fortunately for archaeologists ,  all plants contain what are called phytoliths in their stems and leaves .
SENTENCE phytoliths are microscopic structures made of silica ,  and they do not decay .
SENTENCE when plants die and rot away ,  they leave these phytoliths behind .
SENTENCE because different plants produce differently shaped phytoliths ,  scientists can identify the type of plant from ancient remains .
SENTENCE so ,  those scientists in uganda ,  dug down to sediments that were 5 ,     years old .
SENTENCE and what do you think they found ?
SENTENCE banana phytoliths !
SENTENCE obviously this meant that we had to rethink our previous notions about when bananas first arrived in africa .
SENTENCE but ,  well ,  this discovery had other implications for history .
SENTENCE as soon as bananas appear in the archaeological record ,  we know we have contact between africa and southeast asia .
SENTENCE it would appear now that this contact occurred much earlier than previously thought .
SENTENCE al although now here's where the uncertainty comes in we don't really have any solid evidence of trade between the peoples of these two regions that long ago .
SENTENCE presumably ,  if people were bringing bananas to africa ,  they'd also be bringing other things too  pottery ,  tools all sorts of objects made for trade or daily use .
SENTENCE but any such evidence is missing from the archaeological record .
SENTENCE the early appearance of bananas also suggests that agriculture began in this part of africa earlier than scientists imagined .
SENTENCE you see ,  bananas ,  at least the edible kind ,  can't grow without human intervention .
SENTENCE they have to be cultivated .
SENTENCE people need to plant them and care for them .
SENTENCE so if bananas were present in uganda 5 ,     years ago ,  we would have to assume that that that someone planted them .
SENTENCE the above text is a transcript of this lecture prepared by lady bird  qq519626928  .
SENTENCE but ,  there are questions about this too .
SENTENCE we know that bananas can be a staple food that can support large populations ,  as they did in uganda in the more recent past .
SENTENCE if bananas were grown thousands of years ago ,  why don't we see evidence of large populations thriving in the area earlier ?
SENTENCE so ,  we are left with this mystery .
SENTENCE we have what appears to be strong biological evidence that bananas were being cultivated in uganda as early as 5 ,     years ago .
SENTENCE but we are missing other kinds of evidence that would conclusively prove that this is so .
SENTENCE clearly ,  more research needs to be done .
SENTENCE perhaps by some new scholars from this university ?
SENTENCE at least give it some thought .
QUESTION what are the implications of the theory that bananas arrived in africa 5000 years ago
OPTION agriculture developed in africa earlier than previously assumed 1
OPTION contact between africa and asia occurred earlier than previously assumed 1
OPTION people have inhabited southeast asia longer than previously assumed 0
OPTION the banana plant is a more ancient plant than was previously assumed 0
