SENTENCE up until now in our discussions and readings about the baroque and early classical periods , we've been talking about the development of musical styles and genres within therelatively narrow social context of its patronage by the upper classes .
SENTENCE composers ,  after all ,  had to earn a living and those who were employed in the services of a specific patron ,  well ,  i don't have to spell it out for you ,  the likes and dislikes of that patron ,  this would've had an effect on what was being composed and performed .
SENTENCE now ,  of course ,  there were many other influences on composers ,  um ,  such as the technical advances we've seen and the development of some of the instruments ,  uh ,  you remember the transverse flute ,  the clarinet and so on .
SENTENCE but i think if i were asked to identify a single crucial development in european music of this time ,  it would be the invention of the piano ,  which ,  interestingly enough also had a significant effect on european society of that time .
SENTENCE and i'll get to that in a minute .
SENTENCE now ,  as we know ,  keyboard instruments existed long before the piano   the organ ,  which dates back to the middle ages ,  as do other keyboard instruments ,  such as the harpsichord which is still popular today with some musicians .
SENTENCE but none of these has had as profound an impact as the piano .
SENTENCE uh ,  the piano was invented in italy in 17 9 .
SENTENCE the word piano is short for pianoforte ,  a combination of the italian words for soft and loud .
SENTENCE now ,  unlike the harpsichord which came before it ,  the piano is a percussion instrument .
SENTENCE you see ,  the harpsichord is actually classified as a string instrument ,  since pressing a key of a harpsichord causes a tiny quill that's connected to the key to pluck the strings that are inside the instrument ,  much the same as a guitar pick plucks the strings of a guitar but pressing the keys of a piano causes tiny felt covered hammers to strike the strings inside the instrument ,  like drumsticks striking the head of a drum .
SENTENCE this striking action is why the piano is a percussion instrument instead of a string instrument .
SENTENCE okay ,  so why is this so important ?
SENTENCE well ,  the percussive effect of those little hammers means that the pianist ,  unlike the harpsichordist ,  can control the dynamics of the sound   how softly or loudly each note is struck ,  hence the name ,  pianoforte ,  soft and loud .
SENTENCE now ,  artistically for both composers and performers this was a major turning point .
SENTENCE this brand new instrument ,  capable of producing loud and soft tones ,  greatly expanded the possibilities for conveying emotion .
SENTENCE this capacity for increased expressiveness ,  in fact ,  was essential to the romantic style that dominated 19th century music .
SENTENCE but i'm getting ahead of myself .
SENTENCE um ,  before we get back to the musical impact of this development ,  i wanna take a look at the social impact that i mentioned earlier .
SENTENCE now ,  in the late 17 's and the earlier 1 8 's ,  the development of the piano coincided with the growth of the middle class in western europe .
SENTENCE of course folk music ,  traditional songs and dances had always been part of everyday life .
SENTENCE but as mass production techniques were refined in the 19th century ,  the price of pianos dropped to the point that a larger proportion of the population could afford to own them .
SENTENCE as pianos became more available ,  they brought classical music ,  the music which previously had been composed only for the upper classes ,  into the lives of the middle class people as well .
SENTENCE one way in particular that we can see the social impact of this instrument is its role in the lives of women of the time .
SENTENCE previously ,  it was quite rare for a woman to perform on anything ,  but maybe a harp or maybe she sang .
SENTENCE but suddenly in the 19th century it became quite acceptable ,  even ,  to some extent ,  almost expected for a middle class european woman to be able to play the piano ,  partly because among upper middle class women it was a sign of refinement .
SENTENCE but it was also an excellent way for some women to earn money by giving piano lessons .
SENTENCE and some women ,  those few who had exceptional talent and the opportunity to develop it ,  their lives were dramatically affected .
SENTENCE later we'll be listening to works by a composer named robert schumann .
SENTENCE but let's now talk about his wife clara schumann .
SENTENCE clara schumann was born in germany in 1819 .
SENTENCE she grew up surrounded by pianos .
SENTENCE her father sold pianos and both her parents were respected piano teachers .
SENTENCE she learned to play the instrument when she was a small child and gave her first public recital at age 9 .
SENTENCE clara grew up to become a well known and respected piano virtuoso ,  a performer of extraordinary skill who not only gave concerts across europe ,  but also was one of the first important female composers for the instrument .
QUESTION why does the professor discuss clara schumann
OPTION she influenced the design of the modern piano 0
OPTION she grew up in an environment that encouraged female musicians 1
OPTION her musical talents were inherited from her parents 0
OPTION her background and robert schumann's background were similar 0
