SENTENCE today ,  we are taking a little detour from the grand styles of public architecture we've been studying to look at residential architectures in the united states .
SENTENCE since this is something we can all identify with ,  i think it will help us see the relationship between the function of a structure and its style or form .
SENTENCE this has been an ongoing theme in our discussions ,  and we will be getting back to it in just a moment .
SENTENCE but before we get started ,  i want you to take a moment to think  does anyone know what the single most popular style for a house in the united states is today ?
SENTENCE bob ?
SENTENCE i bet it is the ranch style house .
SENTENCE well ,  in this area ,  probably .
SENTENCE but are we typical ?
SENTENCE yes ,  sue .
SENTENCE how about the kind of house my grandparents live in ?
SENTENCE they call it a capethat's the one .
SENTENCE here is a drawing of what we consider of a classic cape cod house .
SENTENCE these days ,  you see this style all over the united states .
SENTENCE but it first showed up in u .
SENTENCE 's .
SENTENCE northeast ,  in the new england region ,  around the late 16 's .
SENTENCE for those of you who don't know the northeast coastal region ,  cape cod is a peninsula ,  a narrow strip of land that jets out into the atlantic ,  and so    so ,  many houses in this particular style were built on cape cod ,  that the name of the place became the name of the style .
SENTENCE now why did the cape cod style house become so popular in the northeast ?
SENTENCE well ,  one reason is that it's a great example of form following function .
SENTENCE we've talked about this design principle a lot about form following function .
SENTENCE and what did we say it meant ?
SENTENCE someone give me an application of this principle .
SENTENCE what is this concept that form should follow function ?
SENTENCE how would it be applied to housing design ?
SENTENCE well ,  if it means that the design of a building should be based on the needs of the people who use it .
SENTENCE then ,  well ,  the architect has to be very practical to think about the people who'll actually be living in the house or working in the office building ,  whatever ,  so for the architect ,  it's all about the users not about showing off how creative you can be .
SENTENCE good ,  of course ,  for a cape cod house ,  it might be even more accurate to say that form also follows climate .
SENTENCE who knows what the climate's like on cape cod ?
SENTENCE and whenever i visit my grandparents ,  it's really wet .
SENTENCE it's usually either raining or snowing or foggy and windy ,  too .
SENTENCE i guess because it's so exposed to the ocean ?
SENTENCE that's right .
SENTENCE so take another look at this drawing ,  and you can imagine how this design might be particularly helpful in that kind of climate .
SENTENCE notice how the house sits fairly low to the ground .
SENTENCE this relatively low compact structure helps the house withstand the strong winds blowing off the ocean .
SENTENCE slope of the roof ,  the steep angle helps keep off all that rain and snow that accumulates in the winter .
SENTENCE another thing ,  cape cod houses usually face south to take advantage of the sun's warm through the windows .
SENTENCE that's helpful in winter .
SENTENCE now what can you tell me about the chimney ,  about its location ?
SENTENCE well ,  it's in the middle .
SENTENCE because ,  does that have something to do with heating the houses ?
SENTENCE i mean since the heat never has to travel very far .
SENTENCE that'd mean you can heat the house more efficiently ,  right ?
SENTENCE exactly ,  now see how the house has very little exterior decoration ,  that's also typical of early cape cod houses .
SENTENCE the wind was one reason ,  nothing sticking out that might blow away in the harsh weather ,  but there was probably another reason ,  not related to the climate ,  more a reflection of rural new england society back then ,  you see cape cod houses were not built in the big cities ,  where all the rich people lived back then .
SENTENCE these were modest dwellings ,  the people who built them simply couldn't afford lots of expensive decorative details .
SENTENCE but it was more than just a matter of money .
SENTENCE in these rural areas ,  people depended on each other for survival .
SENTENCE neighbors had to help and support each other in a difficult environment ,  so you didn't want to appear to be showing off .
SENTENCE you'd want to avoid anything that might set you apart from your neighbors ,  the same people you might need to help you someday .
SENTENCE so all these help to create an attitude of conformity in the community ,  and you can see why a modest ,  a very plain style would have become so widely imitated throughout rural new england .
SENTENCE it is plain ,  but you know its nice looking .
SENTENCE good point ,  and in fact it's precisely that aesthetic appeal ,  the the purity ,  the nearly perfect proportions of the house that's another reason for the cape cod's enduring popularity ,  even in places where the climate is so mild that its functional design doesn't matter .
QUESTION according to the lecture , what are two features of cape cod houses that were influenced by climate
OPTION the thickness of walls 0
OPTION the slope of the roofs 1
OPTION the number of windows 0
OPTION the simplicity of the exterior 1
