SENTENCE as we learn more about the dna in human cells and how it controls the growth and development of cells ,  then maybe we can explain a very important observation ,  that when we try to grow most human cells in a laboratory ,  they seem programmed to divide only a certain number of times before they die .
SENTENCE now this differs with the type of cell .
SENTENCE some cells ,  like nerve cells ,  only divide seven to nine times in their total life .
SENTENCE others ,  like skin cells ,  will divide many ,  many more times .
SENTENCE but finally the cells stop renewing themselves and they die .
SENTENCE and in the cells of the human body itself ,  in the cells of every organ ,  of almost every type of tissue in the body ,  the same thing will happen eventually .
SENTENCE ok ,  you know that all of a person's genetic information is contained on very long pieces of dna called chromosomes .
SENTENCE 46 of them are in the human cells ,  that's 23 pairs of these chromosomes of various lengths and sizes .
SENTENCE now if you'll look at this rough drawing of one of them ,  one chromosome about to divide into two .
SENTENCE you see that it sort of looks like ,  well actually it's much more complex than this ,  but it reminds us a couple of springs linked together ,  two coiled up pieces of dna .
SENTENCE and if you stretch them out you will find they contain certain genes ,  certain sequences of dna that help determine how the cells of the body will develop .
SENTENCE when researchers look really carefully at the dna in chromosomes though ,  they were amazed ,  we all were ,  to find that only a fraction of it ,  maybe 2  3   ,  converts into meaningful genetic information .
SENTENCE it's incredible  at least it was to me .
SENTENCE but if you took away all the dna that codes for genes ,  you still have maybe 7   of the dna left over .
SENTENCE that's the so called junk dna .
SENTENCE though the word junk is used sort of tongue in cheek .
SENTENCE the assumption is that even if this dna doesn't make up any of the genes ,  it must serve some other purpose .
SENTENCE anyway ,  if we examine these ends of these coils of dna ,  we will find a sequence of dna at each end of every human chromosome ,  called a telomere .
SENTENCE now a telomere is a highly repetitious and genetically meaningless sequence of dna ,  what we were calling junk dna .
SENTENCE but it does have an important purpose  it is sort of like the plastic tip on each end of a shoelace .
SENTENCE it may not help you tie your shoe but that little plastic tip keeps the rest of the shoelace ,  the shoe string from unraveling into weak and useless threads .
SENTENCE well ,  the telomeres at the ends of chromosomes seem to do about the same thing    protect the genes ,  the genetically functional parts of the chromosome ,  from being damaged .
SENTENCE every time the chromosome divides ,  every time one cell divides into two .
SENTENCE pieces of the ends of the chromosome ,  the telomeres ,  get broken off .
SENTENCE so after each division ,  the telomeres get shorter and one of the things that may happen after a while is that pieces of the genes themselves get broken off the chromosomes .
SENTENCE so the chromosome is now losing important genetic information and is no longer functional .
SENTENCE but as long as the telomeres are a certain length ,  they keep this from happening .
SENTENCE so it seems that ,  when the ,  by looking at the length of the telomeres on specific chromosomes ,  we can actually predict pretty much how long certain cells can successfully go on dividing .
SENTENCE now ,  there are some cells that just seem to keep on dividing regardless ,  which may not always be a good thing if it gets out of control .
SENTENCE but when we analyze these cells chemically ,  we find something very interesting ,  a chemical in them ,  an enzyme called telomerase .
SENTENCE as bits of the telomere break off from the end of the chromosome ,  this chemical ,  this telomerase can rebuild it ,  can help reassemble the protective dna ,  the telomere that the chromosome has lost .
SENTENCE someday we may be able to take any cell and keep it alive functioning and reproducing itself essentially forever through the use of telomerase .
SENTENCE and in the future we may have virtually immortal nerve cells and immortal skin cells or whatever ,  because this chemical ,  telomerase ,  can keep the telomeres on the ends of chromosomes from getting any shorter .
QUESTION why does the professor mention shoelaces
OPTION to point out that chromosomes are arranged in pairs 0
OPTION to describe the coiled shape of a chromosome 0
OPTION to illustrate how chromosomes are protected from damage 1
OPTION to explain how chromosomes are joined before dividing 0
