SENTENCE now there are some pretty interesting caves in parts of the western united states ,  especially in national parks .
SENTENCE there is one part that has over a hundred caves ,  including some of the largest ones in the world .
SENTENCE one of the more interesting ones is called lechuguilla cave .
SENTENCE lechuguilla has been explored a lot in recent decades .
SENTENCE it's a pretty exciting place i think .
SENTENCE it was mentioned only briefly in your books .
SENTENCE so can anyone remember what it said ?
SENTENCE ellen ?
SENTENCE it's the deepest limestone cave in the u .
SENTENCE 's .
SENTENCE that's right .
SENTENCE it's one of the longest and deepest limestone caves not just in the country but in the world .
SENTENCE now ,  what else ?
SENTENCE well ,  it was formed because of sulfuric acid ,  right ?
SENTENCE that's it .
SENTENCE yeah ,  what happens is you have deep underground oil deposits and there arebacteria .
SENTENCE here let me draw a diagram .
SENTENCE part of the limestone rock layer is permeated by water from below .
SENTENCE those curly lines are supposed to be cracks in the rock .
SENTENCE below the water table and rock is oil .
SENTENCE bacteria feed on this oil and release hydrogen sulfide gas .
SENTENCE this gas is hydrogen sulfide ,  rises up and mixes with oxygen in the underground water that sits in the cracks and fissures in the limestone .
SENTENCE and when hydrogen sulfide reacts with the oxygen in the water ,  the result of that is sulfuric acid ,  ok ?
SENTENCE sulfuric acid eats away at limestone very aggressively .
SENTENCE so you get bigger cracks and then passageways being formed along the openings in the rock and it's all underground .
SENTENCE ah yes ,  paul ?
SENTENCE so that water   it's not flowing ,  right ?
SENTENCE it's still ?
SENTENCE yes ,  so there's two kinds of limestone caves .
SENTENCE in about 9  percent of them ,  you have water from the surface ,  streams ,  waterfall or whatever   moving water that flows through cracks found in the limestone .
SENTENCE it's the moving water itself that wears away at the rock and makes passageways .
SENTENCE also ,  in surface water ,  there is a weak acid ,  carbonic acid ,  not sulfuric acid ,  but carbonic acid that helps dissolve the rock .
SENTENCE with a little help from this carbonic acid ,  moving water forms most of the world's limestone caves .
SENTENCE when i was researching this for a study a few years ago ,  i visited a couple of these typical limestone caves ,  and they were all very wet ,  you know ,  from streams and rivers .
SENTENCE this flowing watercarved out the caves and the structures inside them .
SENTENCE dry as a bone .
SENTENCE well ,  that might be a bit of an exaggeration .
SENTENCE but it's safe to say that it's sulfuric acid and not moving water that formed lechuguilla cave and those few other ones like it .
SENTENCE in fact ,  there is no evidence that flowing water has even gone in or out of the cave .
SENTENCE so ,  it's like a maze .
SENTENCE you have passageways all around .
SENTENCE there are wide passages ,  narrow ones at all different depths ,  like underground tunnels in the limestone .
SENTENCE and ,  since they were created underground and not from flowing surface water ,  not all these passageways have an opening to the outside world .
SENTENCE and    .
SENTENCE and there is other evidence thatflowing water wasn't involved in lechuguilla .
SENTENCE we've said that sulfuric acid dissolves limestone ,  right ,  and forms the passageways ?
SENTENCE what else does sulfuric acid do ?
SENTENCE paul ?
SENTENCE ah ,  leaves a chemical residue    um .
SENTENCE yep ,  you'll find lots of gypsum deposited at lechuguilla .
SENTENCE and ,  as we know ,  gypsum is soluble in water .
SENTENCE so if there were flowing water in the cave ,  it would dissolve the gypsum .
SENTENCE this is part of what led us to the realization that lechuguilla is in that small group of waterless caves .
SENTENCE and lechuguilla is pretty much dormant now .
SENTENCE it's not really forming any more .
SENTENCE but ,  there is other ones like it ,  for example ,  in mexico ,  that are forming .
SENTENCE and when cave researchers go to explore them ,  they see and smell ,  the sulfuric acid and gases of  er  phew  now ,  something else ,  think of rotten eggs .
SENTENCE and ,  it's not just the smell .
SENTENCE explorers even need to wear special masks to protect themselves from the gases in these caves .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE paul .
SENTENCE yeah ,  how about what these caves look like on the inside ?
SENTENCE well ,  the formations    .
SENTENCE there is really something .
SENTENCE there's such variety there ,  like nothing anywhere else in the world ,  some of them are elaborate looking ,  like decorations .
SENTENCE and a lot of them are made of gypsum and could be up to 2  feet long .
SENTENCE it's pretty impressive .
QUESTION what is the main purpose of the lecture
OPTION to explain the various ways that sulfuric acid is involved in the formation of caves 0
OPTION to describe caves and other geologic formations in national parks 0
OPTION to use lechuguilla cave as an example of how most caves form 0
OPTION to discuss the formation and characteristics of an unusual type of cave 1
