SENTENCE hi ,  professor gordin .
SENTENCE i really learned a lot from your lecture ,  the one about analyzing all those different segments of the population .
SENTENCE oh ,  the official term is audience ,  right ?
SENTENCE i never imagine that one company could have over thirty audiences to communicate with .
SENTENCE yeah ,  a lot of students are taken aback by this ,  and some public relations consultants don't figure it out until they've worked in the field a while .
SENTENCE everyone thinks ,  public relations ,  eh ,  pr is easy ,  but there's a lot to it .
SENTENCE you really got to know what you are doing .
SENTENCE absolutely .
SENTENCE so ,  stacy ,  your email implied that you needed my advice about graduate school ?
SENTENCE no ,  since my undergraduate degree will be in public relations ,  i've already decided to get a master's degree in marketing .
SENTENCE sorry ,  i wasn't clear .
SENTENCE my issue is ,  i have got two require courses and two electives .
SENTENCE i am trying to figure out which elective course is to take .
SENTENCE my advisor suggested economics and accounting ,  but i am not really sure .
SENTENCE well ,  i endured accounting and economics in high school and barely stayed awake ,  they were so     ok ,  ok .
SENTENCE i hear you .
SENTENCE eh   you say you wanted a master's in marketing ,  you have got one more semester till graduation .
SENTENCE have you taken any marketing courses yet ?
SENTENCE no ,  i figured i've got the marketing basis already since i have take every pr in communication courses offered here .
SENTENCE well ,  there's some overlap between pr and marketing ,  but there are important differences too .
SENTENCE marketing focuses on selling your product or service ,  eh ,  you know ,  attracting customers through advertising ,  and also buiding relationships with customers .
SENTENCE that's what a marketing department does .
SENTENCE pr is all about ,  it involves relationships too ,  that's why i am saying the two fields overlap .
SENTENCE but in pr ,  you are developing relationships with a wider range of audience .
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE like employees ,  suppliers ,  the media .
SENTENCE i do understand this in theory ,  but aren't you still selling your product ,  just in a different way ?
SENTENCE not necessarily .
SENTENCE ok ,  do you remember that pr strategy i alluded to the other day ?
SENTENCE the one our university uses ,  a strategy that doesn't overlap its marketing strategy ?
SENTENCE you mean how the university invites local residents to attend certain lectures and classes for free ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  this cultivates a sense of good will and helps the university avoid becoming isolated from the larger community .
SENTENCE bringing neighbours into our classrooms is good pr ,  but it is not marketing since our neighbours aren't our customers ,  for the most part .
SENTENCE that's why i want to focus on marketing in graduate school .
SENTENCE wouldn't having expertise in pr and marketing giving me more career options ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  but you'll also want to enjoy your work .
SENTENCE so for you electives ,  why don't you take advertising principles and intro to marketing ,  which i teach .
SENTENCE this way ,  you'll find out if marketing is something you really want to pursue .
SENTENCE graduate school tuition is expensive ,  and these courses will give you a good overview of the field before committing yourself .
SENTENCE i wish my advisor had suggested those courses .
SENTENCE well ,  i am someone who has worked in both marketing and pr ,  so i can offer a different perspective than someone who only teaches  .
QUESTION what does the professor imply when he mentions that graduate school is expensive
OPTION the woman may need to work part time while attending graduate school 0
OPTION the woman should shop around for an affordable graduate school 0
OPTION the woman could probably find employment in the marketing field without a graduate degree 0
OPTION the woman should make sure that her graduate course of study interest her 1
