SENTENCE hi ,  i was wondering if i could talk with you about the assignment in the film theory class .
SENTENCE it seems that pretty much everyone else in the class gets what they are supposed to be doing but i'm not so sure .
SENTENCE well ,  the class is for students who are really serious about film .
SENTENCE you must have taken film courses before .
SENTENCE yeah ,  in high school ,  film appreciation .
SENTENCE hmmm i wouldn't think that would be enough .
SENTENCE did you concentrate mainly on form or content ?
SENTENCE oh ,  definitely content .
SENTENCE we'd watch ,  say lord of the flies ,  and then discuss it .
SENTENCE oh ,  that approach ,  treating film as literature ,  ignoring what makes it unique .
SENTENCE i liked it ,  though .
SENTENCE sure ,  but that kind of class .
SENTENCE well ,  i'm not surprised that you are feeling a little lost .
SENTENCE you know ,  we have two introductory courses that are supposed to be taken before you get to my course ,  one in film art ,  techniques ,  technical stuff and another in film history .
SENTENCE so students in the class you are in should be pretty far along in film studies .
SENTENCE in fact ,  usually the system blocks anyone trying to sign up for a class they shouldn't be taking ,  who hasn't taken the courses you are required to do first as prerequisites .
SENTENCE well ,  i did have a problem with that but i discussed it with one of your office staff ,  and she gave me permission .
SENTENCE of course .
SENTENCE no matter how many times i tell them ,  they just keep on  well ,  for your own good ,  i'd really suggest dropping back and starting at the usual place .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE but i've already been in this class for 4 weeks .
SENTENCE i'd hate to just drop it now especially since i find it so different ,  so interesting .
SENTENCE i guess so .
SENTENCE frankly i can't believe you've lasted this long .
SENTENCE these are pretty in depth theories we've been discussing and you've been doing ok so far ,  i guess .
SENTENCE but still ,  the program's been designed to progress through certain stages .
SENTENCE like any other professional training we build on pervious knowledge .
SENTENCE then maybe you could recommend some extra reading i can do to  catch up ?
SENTENCE well ,  are you intending to study film as your main concentration ?
SENTENCE no ,  no .
SENTENCE i am just interested .
SENTENCE i'm actually in marketing ,  but there seems to be a connection .
SENTENCE oh well ,  in in that case ,  if you're taking the course just out of interest ,  i mean i still highly recommend signing up for the introductory courses at some point ,  but in the meantime ,  there is no harm i guess in trying to keep up with this class .
SENTENCE the interest is clearly there .
SENTENCE eh ,  instead of any extra reading just now though ,  you could view some of the old introductory lectures .
SENTENCE we have them on video .
SENTENCE that would give you a better handle on the subject .
SENTENCE it's still a pretty tall order ,  and we will be moving right along ,  so you will really need to stay on top of it .
SENTENCE ok ,  i've been warned .
SENTENCE now ,  could i tell you about my idea for the assignment ?
QUESTION why was the student permitted to sign up for professor's film theory course
OPTION her high school course fulfilled the requirement for previous course work 0
OPTION the computer system that usually blocks students was not working properly 0
OPTION an employee in the department did not follow instructions 1
OPTION the professor made an exception in her case 0
