SENTENCE uh ,  hi ,  lisa ,  what can i do for you ?
SENTENCE well ,  i've been thinking about ,  you know ,  what you were saying in class last week ,  about how we shouldn't wait until the last minute to find an idea and get started working on our term papergood ,  good ,  and have you come up with anything ?
SENTENCE well ,  yeah ,  sort of .
SENTENCE see ,  i've never had a linguistics class before ,  so i was sort of ,  i mean ,  i was looking over the course description and a lot of the stuff you described there ,  i just don't know what it is talking about ,  you know ,  or what it means .
SENTENCE but there was one thing that really did jump out at me .
SENTENCE the section on dialects ,   cause like ,  that's the kind of thing that's always sort of intrigued me ,  you know ?
SENTENCE well ,  that's certainly an interesting topic .
SENTENCE but you may not realize ,  i mean ,  the scope .
SENTENCE well ,  especially now ,   cause i've got like one roommate who is from the south and another one from new york .
SENTENCE and we all talk like totally different ,  you knowyes ,  i understand .
SENTENCE but but then i was noticing ,  like ,  we don't really get into this till the end of the semester ,  you know .
SENTENCE so i so ,  you want some pointers where to go for information on the subject ?
SENTENCE well ,  you could always start by reading the chapter in the book on sociolinguistics .
SENTENCE that will give you a basic understanding of the key issues involved here .
SENTENCE yeah ,  that's what i thought .
SENTENCE so i started reading the chapter ,  you know ,  about how everyone speaks some dialect of a language .
SENTENCE and i'm wondering like ,  well ,  how do we even manage to understand each other at all ?
SENTENCE ah ,  yes ,  an interesting question .
SENTENCE you see so then i read the part about dialect accommodation .
SENTENCE you know ,  the idea that people tend to adapt their speaking to make it closer to the speech of whomever they're talking to ,  and i'm thinking ,  yeah ,  i do that when i talk with my roommates ,  and without even thinking about it or anything ,  you know .
SENTENCE ok ,  all right .
SENTENCE dialect accommodation is a more manageable sort of topic .
SENTENCE so i was thinking like ,  i wonder just how much other people do the same thing .
SENTENCE i mean ,  there are students here from all over the place .
SENTENCE does everyone change the way they talk to some degree depending on whom they are talking to ?
SENTENCE so ,  anyway ,  my question is ,  do you think it'd be ok if i did a project like that for my term paper ?
SENTENCE you know ,  find students from different parts of the country ,  record them talking to each other in different combinations ,  report on how they accommodate their speech or not ,  that kind of thing ?
SENTENCE tell you what ,  lisa ,  write me up a short proposal for this project ,  how you're going to carry out the experiment and everything ,  a design plan .
SENTENCE and i think this'll work out just fine .
QUESTION what does the professor want the student to do next
OPTION read some articles he has recommended 0
OPTION present her proposal before the entire class 0
OPTION submit a design plan for the project 1
OPTION listen to recordings of different dialects 0
