SENTENCE so last week we started our unit on residential architecture in the united states .
SENTENCE so today we'll be surveying a number of architects who made contributions to residential architecture in the 19th century .
SENTENCE now ,  it's worth noting that people who designed homes at that time probably had to deal with a certain amount of discouragement .
SENTENCE since there were other architects who thought it was more respectable to design the kind of buildings and maybe other structures that were less less utilitarian in their function .
SENTENCE in fact ,  an article from an 1876 issue of a journal called the american architect and building news stated that ,  and this is a quote ,  they stated that  the planning of houses isn't architecture at all  !
SENTENCE so keep that journal article in mind as we look at the work of an architect named harriet morrison irwin .
SENTENCE harriet morrison irwin was from the south ,  born in north carolina in 1828 .
SENTENCE at the time ,  there weren't many architects from the southern united states .
SENTENCE and as you might imagine ,  very few of them were women .
SENTENCE so irwin was really a pretty exceptional case .
SENTENCE and she wasn't even formally trained as an architect .
SENTENCE her educational background was in literature .
SENTENCE the above text is a transcript of this lecture prepared by lady bird  qq519626928  .
SENTENCE so she just had like unnatural gift for architecture ?
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE she was actually a writer for several years .
SENTENCE but she did have a penchant for math and engineering ,  so she read a lot about it on her own .
SENTENCE um especially the architectural essays written by the british critic   john ruskin .
SENTENCE and john ruskin believed what ?
SENTENCE um that buildings should have a lot of access to the outdoors ,  to nature .
SENTENCE ruskin said that being close to nature was great for people's mental and physical health .
SENTENCE right !
SENTENCE so that was an influence .
SENTENCE now ,  harriet irwin's contribution to architecture was relatively minor but still quite interesting and unique .
SENTENCE she designed a house with a hexagonal shape .
SENTENCE josh ?
SENTENCE a house with six sides ?
SENTENCE instead of the standard ,  you know ,  four sided home ?
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE the rooms inside the house were also hexagonal ,  six sided .
SENTENCE so one important thing was that the rooms were arranged around a chimney in the center of the house ,  which could provide heat for the whole house through flues ,  uh ,  small air passageways into each room ,  as opposed to having a fireplace in every room ,  which would require more cleaning and make the air inside the house dirtier .
SENTENCE the house's shape also allowedfor more windows .
SENTENCE each room had a large wall that could fit a couple of big winters ,  giving every room a nice view of the outdoors .
SENTENCE plus there would be good airflow through the house .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE in warm weather when you can open all the windows .
SENTENCE good .
SENTENCE the doors to the house as well uh the house didn't have a main entrance or any hallways .
SENTENCE so there could be a couple of entry doors in different places ,  which like the windows ,  provided ready access to the outdoors .
SENTENCE so ,  what other advantages might there be to hexagonal rooms ?
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE think about cleaning .
SENTENCE what part of a room is usually the hardest to clean ?
SENTENCE like to sweep with a broom .
SENTENCE oh !
SENTENCE the corners .
SENTENCE because in square or rectangular rooms ,  the corners are at 9  degree angles .
SENTENCE it's hard to reach all the dust that gathers in the corners .
SENTENCE but if irwin's rooms were closer to a circle than a square ,  it would be easier to reach all the dust and dirt with a broom .
SENTENCE right ?
SENTENCE now ,  um biographers who wrote about irwin in the 19th century ,  i feel ,  sort of downplayed the ingenuity of her design .
SENTENCE but i think if she had designed this house today ,  the same biographers would praise her for coming up with a floor plan that emphasized function ,  efficient function of a house ,  as well as a design that's creative and unique .
SENTENCE in any cases ,  three houses were built in irwin's time that used her hexagonal design .
SENTENCE and in 1869 ,  when she was 41 ,  irwin became the first woman in the united states to receive a patent for an architectural design .
SENTENCE and that speaks volumes  if you ask me .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about irwin's nineteenth century biographers
OPTION they were probably envious of her success 0
OPTION they did not sufficiently value function in residential architecture 1
OPTION they did not know much about architects from the southern united states 0
OPTION they understood the difficulties faced by women architects 0
