SENTENCE when we think of large monumental structures built by early societies ,  an egyptian pyramid probably comes to mind .
SENTENCE but there are some even earlier structures in the british isles also worth discussing ,  and besides the well known circle of massive stones of stonehenge ,  which don't get me wrong is remarkable enough ,  well ,  other impressive neolithic structures are found there too .
SENTENCE oh ,  yes ,  we are talking about the neolithic period here ,  also called new stone age ,  which was the time before stone tools began to be replaced by tools made of bronze and other metals .
SENTENCE it was about 5    years ago ,  even before the first egyptian pyramid that some amazing neolithic monuments   tombs ,  were erected at various sites around ireland ,  great britain and coastal islands nearby .
SENTENCE i am referring particular to structures that in some cases ,  look like ordinary natural hills but were definitely built by humans ,  well organized communities of humans to enclose a chamber or room within stone walls and sometimes with a high ,  cleverly designed ceiling of overlapping stones .
SENTENCE these structures are called passage graves ,  because the inner chamber ,  sometimes several chambers in fact ,  could only be entered from the outside through a narrow passageway .
SENTENCE excuse me ,  professor ,  but you said passage graves .
SENTENCE were these just monuments to honor the dead buried there or were they designed to be used somehow by the living ?
SENTENCE ah ,  yes !
SENTENCE good question ,  michael .
SENTENCE besides being built as tombs ,  some of these passage graves were definitely what we might call astronomical calendars ,  with chambers that were flooded with sunlight on certain special days of the year ,  which must've have seemed miraculous and inspired a good deal of religious wonder .
SENTENCE but research indicates that not just light but also the physics of sound helped enhancewell ,  first the echoes .
SENTENCE when a religious leader started chanting with echoes bouncing off the stonewalls over and over again ,  it must've seemed like a whole chorus of other voices ,  spirits of gods maybe ,  joining in .
SENTENCE but even more intriguing is what physicists calledstanding waves .
SENTENCE basically ,  the phenomenon of standing waves occurs when sound waves of the same frequency reflect off the walls and meet from opposite directions .
SENTENCE so ,  the volume seems to alternate between very loud and very soft .
SENTENCE you can stand quite near a man singing in loud voice and hardly hear him .
SENTENCE yet step a little further away and his voice is almost deafening .
SENTENCE as you move around the chamber ,  the volume of the sound goes way up and way down ,  depending on where you are in these standing waves .
SENTENCE and often the acoustics make it hard to identify where sounds are coming from .
SENTENCE it's as if powerful voices are speaking to you or chanting from inside your own head .
SENTENCE this had to engender a powerful sense of awe in neolithic worshipers .
SENTENCE and another bit of physics at play here is something called resonance .
SENTENCE i am no physicist ,  but well i imagine you have all blown air over the top of an empty bottle and heard the sound it makes .
SENTENCE and you've probably noticed that depending on its size    each empty bottle plays one particular musical note .
SENTENCE or as a physicist might put it ,  each bottle resonates at a particular frequency .
SENTENCE well ,  that's true of these chambers too .
SENTENCE if you make a constant noise inside the chamber ,  maybe by steadily beating drum at a certain rate ,  a particular frequency of sound will resonate ,  will ring out intensely ,  depending on the size of the chamber .
SENTENCE in some of the larger chambers though ,  these intensified sound may be too deep for us to hear ,  we can feel it .
SENTENCE we are mysteriously agitated by it  .
SENTENCE but it is not a sound our ears can hear .
SENTENCE the psychological effects of all these extraordinary sounds can be profound ,  especially when they seem so disconnected from the human doing the drumming or chanting .
SENTENCE and there can be observable physical effects on people too .
SENTENCE in fact ,  the sounds can cause headaches ,  feelings of dizziness ,  increased heart rate ,  that sort of thing ,  you see .
SENTENCE anyway ,  what was experienced inside one of these passage graves clearly could be far more intense than the everyday reality outside ,  which made them very special places .
SENTENCE but back to your question ,  michael ,  as to whether these graves were designed to be used by the living .
SENTENCE well ,  certainly ,  with regard to astronomical or calendar function .
SENTENCE that seems pretty obvious ,  and i wanna go into more detail on that now .
QUESTION why does the professor mention a bottle
OPTION to illustrate the shape of the interior of a passage grave 0
OPTION to describe part of a neolithic burial ceremony 0
OPTION to help explain how resonance is produced 1
OPTION to give an example of an artifact found in a neolithic site 0
