SENTENCE so would it surprise you to learn that many of the foods that we today consider traditional european dishes that their key ingredients were not even known in europe until quite recently ,  until the european started trading with the native peoples of north and south america ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  you are probably aware that the americas provide europe and asia with foods like squash ,  beans ,  turkey ,  peanuts .
SENTENCE but what about all those italian tomato sauces ,  hungarian goulash or my favorite ,  french fries ?
SENTENCE those yummy fried potatoes .
SENTENCE wait .
SENTENCE i mean i knew potatoes were from where ,  south america ?
SENTENCE south america .
SENTENCE right ,  the andes mountains .
SENTENCE but you are saying tomatoes too ?
SENTENCE i just assume since they're used in so many italian dishes .
SENTENCE no ,  like potatoes ,  tomatoes grew wild in the andes .
SENTENCE although unlike potatoes ,  they weren't originally cultivated there .
SENTENCE that seems to have occurred first in central america .
SENTENCE and even then the tomato doesn't appear to have been very important as a food plant until the europeans came on the scene .
SENTENCE they took it back to europe with them around 155  .
SENTENCE and italy was indeed the first place where it was widely grown as a food crop .
SENTENCE so in a sense ,  it really is more italian than american .
SENTENCE and another thing and this is true of both potato and tomato .
SENTENCE both of these plants are members of the nightshade family .
SENTENCE the nightshade family is a category of plants which also includes many that you wouldn't want to eat ,  like mandrake ,  belladonna ,  and even tobacco .
SENTENCE so it's no wonder that people once considered potatoes and tomatoes to be inedible too ,  even poisonous .
SENTENCE and in fact ,  the leaves of the potato plant are quite toxic .
SENTENCE so it took both plants quite a while to catch on in europe .
SENTENCE and even longer before they made the return trip to north america and became popular food items here .
SENTENCE yeah ,  you know ,  i remember ,  i remember my grandmother telling me that when her mother was a little girl ,  a lot of people still thought that tomatoes are poisonous .
SENTENCE oh ,  sure .
SENTENCE people didn't really start eating them here until the mid eighteen hundreds .
SENTENCE but seems like i heard   didn't thomas jefferson grow them or something ?
SENTENCE well ,  that's true .
SENTENCE but then jefferson is known not only as the third president of the united states but also as a scholar who was way ahead of his time in many ways .
SENTENCE he didn't let the conventional thinking of his day restrain his ideas .
SENTENCE now ,  potatoes went through a similar sort of   uh   of a rejection process ,  especially when they were first introduced in europe .
SENTENCE you know how potatoes can turn green if they are left in the light too long ?
SENTENCE and that greenish skin can make the potatoes tastes bitter  even make you ill .
SENTENCE so that was enough to put people off for over 2   years .
SENTENCE yes ,  bill ?
SENTENCE i'm sorry professor jones .
SENTENCE but i mean yeah ok .
SENTENCE american crops have probably contributed a lot to european cooking over the years .
SENTENCE but but have they really played any kind of important role in european history ?
SENTENCE well ,  as a matter of fact ,  yes .
SENTENCE i was just coming to that .
SENTENCE let's start with north american corn or maize ,  as it's often called .
SENTENCE now before the europeans made contact with the americas ,  they subsisted mainly on grains ,  grains that often suffered from crop failures .
SENTENCE and largely for this reason that political power in europe was centered for centuries in the south ,  around the mediterranean sea ,  which was where they could grow these grains with more reliability .
SENTENCE when corn came to europe from mexico ,  well ,  now they had a much hardier crop that could be grown easily in more northerly climates and the centers of power began to shift accordingly .
SENTENCE and then ,  well ,  as i said potatoes weren't really popular at first .
SENTENCE but when they finally did catch on which they did first in ireland around 178  .
SENTENCE well ,  why do you suppose it happen ?
SENTENCE because potatoes have the ability to provide an abundant and extremely nutritious food crop ,  no other crop grew in north europe at the time had anything like the number of vitamins contained in potatoes .
SENTENCE plus ,  potatoes grown on the single acre of land could feed many more people than say ,  wheat grown on the same land .
SENTENCE potatoes soon spread to france and other northern european countries .
SENTENCE and as a result ,  the nutrition of the general population improved tremendously and population soared in the early 18 's and so the shift of power from southern to northern europe continued .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about thomas jefferson's attitude toward tomatoes
OPTION it was typical of his unconventional way of thinking 1
OPTION it helped to advance his political career 0
OPTION it changed the eating habits of north americans 0
OPTION it helped to make tomatoes popular in europe 0
