SENTENCE the great pyramid of giza in egypt might be the most famous building in the world .
SENTENCE we know exactly when it was built .
SENTENCE construction started in 2547 b .
SENTENCE c .
SENTENCE e .
SENTENCE ,  about 45   years ago .
SENTENCE we know who had it built .
SENTENCE that was the pharaoh khufu .
SENTENCE we know who oversaw its construction the pharaoh's brother .
SENTENCE we know so many things about it ,  but the funny thing is  we still don't know exactly how it was built .
SENTENCE this picture will give you an idea of the size of the pyramid and the size of the blocks it's made out of that .
SENTENCE about two million stone blocks were used to build the great pyramid and they are incredibly massive .
SENTENCE the average weight is two and a half tons .
SENTENCE the problem that has puzzled scholars for centuries is how were these blocks lifted up the height of this massive structure and then fit into place and without the benefit of modern technology .
SENTENCE of course ,  there've been a lot of theories over the centuries .
SENTENCE the oldest recorded one is by the greek historian herodotus .
SENTENCE he visited egypt around 45  b .
SENTENCE c .
SENTENCE e .
SENTENCE ,  when the pyramid was already 2    years old .
SENTENCE his theory was that cranes were used ,  much like we use cranes today to construct tall buildings .
SENTENCE and herodotus may have seen egyptians using cranes made of wood .
SENTENCE but the problem with this theory has to do with simple mechanics .
SENTENCE a crane needs a wide and sturdy base to stand on or it will fall over .
SENTENCE well ,  as you get toward the top of the pyramid ,  there's really no place for a crane to stand .
SENTENCE the stone blocks are too narrow to provide a base .
SENTENCE well ,  so much for that theory .
SENTENCE the next one has to do with the use of a ramp that would allow workers to drag a stone block up the side of the structure .
SENTENCE of course the ramp can't be too steep .
SENTENCE it has to have a long gentle slope .
SENTENCE and that's the problem .
SENTENCE if you build a ramp with a slight slope up to the top of a pyramid that's over 13  meters high ,  it would have to be almost two kilometers long .
SENTENCE well ,  the pyramid is built on a flat area called the giza plateau .
SENTENCE the plateau is simply not big enough to accommodate a two kilometer long ramp .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE so what now ?
SENTENCE well ,  if you've ever driven on a mountain road ,  you'd know that it has a lot of twists and turns and bends in it ,  because that's how engineers keep the road from having to be too steep .
SENTENCE so why not wrap the ramp around the pyramid ?
SENTENCE building the ramp around it as you go .
SENTENCE sounds like a pretty good idea .
SENTENCE except it's got a serious problem .
SENTENCE see one of the most remarkable things about the great pyramid is how accurate the proportions are .
SENTENCE the dimensions are almost perfect .
SENTENCE to get that perfection ,  the engineers must have had to measure it repeatedly during construction .
SENTENCE and the way you'd measure it is from the four corners of the base .
SENTENCE well ,  if you got a ramp spiraling up from the base of the pyramid ,  those corners would be buried by that ramp during construction .
SENTENCE well ,  who says the ramp has to be on the outside of the pyramid ?
SENTENCE and now we get to the latest idea .
SENTENCE if the ramp were on the inside of the pyramid ,  the corners at the base would be exposed ,  so the engineers could do their measurements while they were building .
SENTENCE well ,  an architect named houdin has spent a few years working on making computer models of the building of the pyramid .
SENTENCE and what houdin believes is that an exterior straight ramp was used to construct the bottom third of the pyramid ,  this ramp would have been fairly short .
SENTENCE it probably rose less than 5  meters .
SENTENCE then the rest of the pyramid was constructed using an internal ramp that spiraled around the inside of the pyramid .
SENTENCE but how can we test this idea ?
SENTENCE well ,  there are several ways to look inside the pyramid .
SENTENCE one is called microgravimetry .
SENTENCE microgravimetry is a technique that's used to detect voids inside a structure .
SENTENCE you can then take the data and generate an image that shows any empty spaces in the interior .
SENTENCE well ,  in 1986 ,  french scientists completed a microgravimetric survey of the pyramid .
SENTENCE and one of the images they produced showed an empty spiral shaped space inside it .
SENTENCE the shape of that space corresponds exactly to what houdin thought the ramp would look like .
SENTENCE i think herodotus would be convinced .
SENTENCE we might very well be at the end of centuries of guessing .
QUESTION why does the professor talk about the accuracy of the proportions of the great pyramid
OPTION to provide background on the principles of microgravimetry 0
OPTION to discount the possibility that a ramp once spiraled around outside of the pyramid 1
OPTION to explain the effectiveness of computer models of the pyramid 0
OPTION to emphasize the difficulty of building a ramp with the correct slope 0
