SENTENCE for today's discussion ,  we'll review the case study on how some animals have behaviorally adapted to their environments .
SENTENCE now you had to read about two animal species ,  the eastern marmot and the olympic marmot .
SENTENCE marmots are rodents .
SENTENCE they are large ground squirrels ,  about the size of an average house cat .
SENTENCE and they live in a variety of habitats .
SENTENCE and even though they spend the significant portion of the year hibernating ,  according to this case study ,  marmots are still considered excellent subjects for animal behavioral studies .
SENTENCE why is that ?
SENTENCE well ,  when they are not hibernating ,  you can find them in open areas .
SENTENCE and they are pretty active during the day ,  which makes them easy to observe ,  right ?
SENTENCE uh huh ,  so first let's discuss the eastern marmots .
SENTENCE they reside throughout the eastern region of north america where there is a temperate climate ,  where the growing season lasts for at least five months of the year ,  which is when they do all their mating ,  playing and eating .
SENTENCE oh ,  i see .
SENTENCE at first i wasn't sure what growing season meant ,  just from the reading .
SENTENCE but now i get it .
SENTENCE it's the amount of time it takes for them to grow ,  right ?
SENTENCE so it would be five months ?
SENTENCE umm ?
SENTENCE oh ,  uh  i'm sorry but no .
SENTENCE it has nothing to do with that .
SENTENCE it's not about the time it takes for eastern marmots to grow .
SENTENCE it's when the food is available .
SENTENCE that is when it's not covered in snow and there is no frost covering the grass and ,  umm ,  vegetative parts of a plant's herbs and the flowers the marmots like to eat .
SENTENCE so growing season refers to the availability of the food they eat ,  ok ?
SENTENCE so now how would you describe the eastern marmots  social habits ?
SENTENCE well ,  they are really territorial ,  and loners ,  and just so aggressive even with other eastern marmots .
SENTENCE and their mating ritual is just so impersonal .
SENTENCE uh huh ?
SENTENCE now when they emerge in the spring from hibernation ,  the mating process begins .
SENTENCE for them ,  well ,  they come together to mate and then they go their separate ways .
SENTENCE then about six to eight weeks after birth ,  the offspring leave their mothers .
SENTENCE really ?
SENTENCE just six weeks ?
SENTENCE is that possible for the offspring to make it on their own so young ?
SENTENCE well ,  it's not as if they aren't ready for the real world because they are .
SENTENCE remember ,  they mature quickly and the weather's nice .
SENTENCE also they live in open fields where there is lots of edible vegetation .
SENTENCE so roughly six weeks after birth ,  eastern marmots are just old enough to take their chances of surviving in the temperate environment .
SENTENCE so how does this relate to their behavior ?
SENTENCE oh ,  i get it .
SENTENCE since the climate's not too bad ,  the eastern marmots don't have to rely on each other too much and they really don't need to stay together as a family to survive either .
SENTENCE uh ha .
SENTENCE any contrast ,  the olympic marmots ?
SENTENCE what about them ?
SENTENCE well ,  they live together as a family and take care of their young until they are at least two years old .
SENTENCE they're really friendly with each other .
SENTENCE and what i really like is that they even have greeting ceremonies .
SENTENCE and they are not at all aggressive and territorial like the eastern marmots .
SENTENCE so their social behavior is so different from eastern marmots because of the climate where they live ?
SENTENCE that seems so bizarre .
SENTENCE well ,  the olympic marmots inhabit meadows high in the olympic mountains where the weather conditions are much harsher .
SENTENCE so there is a lot more wind and snow .
SENTENCE the growing season only lasts about two to three months .
SENTENCE so in that much shorter period of time ,  all the olympic marmots ,  male and female ,  eat ,  play ,  work and nurture the young together .
SENTENCE because the climate is so harsh ,  cooperation increases the survival rate of the olympic marmots .
SENTENCE they keep their young at home until they are physically able to survive on their own .
SENTENCE this could explain why the social behavior of the olympic marmots is so unlike that of the eastern marmots .
QUESTION according to the case study , why are marmots ideal for observation
OPTION they do not hide from humans 0
OPTION they reside in many regions throughout north america 0
OPTION they are active in open areas during the day 1
OPTION their burrows are easy to locate 0
