SENTENCE professor  the 19th century was the time that saw what we called realism developed in the european theater .
SENTENCE um  to understand this though ,  we first need to look at an earlier form of drama known as the well made play ,  which basically was a pattern for constructing plays ,  plays that   uh   beginning with some early 19th century comedies in france proved very successful commercially .
SENTENCE the dramatic devices used here weren't actually anything new .
SENTENCE they had been around for centuries .
SENTENCE but the formula for a well made play required that the certain of these elements be included in a particular order .
SENTENCE and most importantly ,  that everything in the plays be logically connected .
SENTENCE in fact ,  some of these playwrights would start by writing the end of a play and work backward toward the beginning ,  just to make sure each event led logically from what had gone before .
SENTENCE ok ,  so what are the necessary elements of a well made play ?
SENTENCE well ,  the first is logical exposition .
SENTENCE exposition is whatever background information you have to reveal to the audience .
SENTENCE so ,  they'll understand what is going on .
SENTENCE before this time ,  exposition might have come from actors simply giving speeches .
SENTENCE someone might walk out on a stage and say   in fair verona where we lay our scene !
SENTENCE and then tell all about the feuding families of romeo and juliet .
SENTENCE but for the well made play ,  even the exposition had to be logical ,  believable .
SENTENCE so ,  for example ,  you might have two servants gossiping as they are cleaning the house .
SENTENCE and one says ,  oh ,  what a shame the master's son is still not married .
SENTENCE and the other might mention a rumor about a mysterious gentleman who's just moved into town with his beautiful daughter .
SENTENCE these comments are part of the play's logical exposition .
SENTENCE the next key element of the a well made play is referred to as the inciting incident .
SENTENCE after we have the background information ,  we need a key moment that gets things moving ,  that really makes the audience interested in what happens to the characters we just heard about .
SENTENCE so ,  for example ,  after the two servants reveal all this background information ,  we meet the young man .
SENTENCE just as he first lays eyes on the beautiful young woman ,  and immediately falls in love .
SENTENCE this is the inciting incident .
SENTENCE it sets off ,  the plot of the play .
SENTENCE now ,  the plot of a well made play is usually driven by secrets .
SENTENCE things that the audience knows ,  but the characters often don't know .
SENTENCE so ,  for example ,  the audience learns through a letter or through someone else's conversation who this mysterious gentleman is and why he left the town many years before .
SENTENCE but the young man doesn't know about this .
SENTENCE and the woman doesn't understand the ancient connection between her family and his .
SENTENCE and before the secrets are revealed to the main characters ,  the plot of the play proceeds as a series of sort of up and down moments .
SENTENCE for example ,  the woman first appears not to even notice the young man ,  and it seems to him like the end of the world .
SENTENCE but then ,  he learns that she actually wants to meet him too .
SENTENCE so ,  life is wonderful .
SENTENCE then ,  if he tries to talk with her ,  maybe her father get furious ,  for no apparent reason .
SENTENCE so ,  they can't see each other .
SENTENCE but ,  just as the young man has almost lost all hope ,  he finds out ,  well you get the idea ,  the reversals of fortune continue ,  increasing the audience's tension and excitement ,  making them wonder if everything is going to come out okay or not .
SENTENCE next comesan element known as the  obligatory scene .
SENTENCE it's a scene ,  a moment in which all the secrets are revealed .
SENTENCE and generally ,  things turn out well for the hero and others we care about ,  a happy ending of some sort .
SENTENCE this became so popular that a playwright almost had to include it in every play ,  which is why it's called  the obligatory scene .
SENTENCE and that's followed by the final dramatic element   the denouement or the resolution ,  when all the loose ends have to be tied up in a logical way .
SENTENCE remember ,  the obligatory scene gives the audience emotional pleasure .
SENTENCE but the denouement offers the audience a logical conclusion .
SENTENCE that's the subtle distinction we need to try very hard to keep in mind .
SENTENCE so ,  as i said ,  the well made play ,  this form of playwriting ,  became the basis for realism in drama ,  and for a lot of very popular 19th century plays .
SENTENCE and also ,  a pattern we find in the plots of many later plays and even movies that we see today .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about the obligatory scene and the denouncement
OPTION the difference between them might be unclear to some people 1
OPTION both are useful techniques for developing realistic characters 0
OPTION the denouncement usually occurs within the obligatory scene 0
OPTION the obligatory scene is usually less exciting than the denouncement 0
