SENTENCE hi ,  professor archer ,  you know how in class last week you said that you were looking for students who are interested in volunteering for your archeology project ?
SENTENCE of course ,  are you volunteering ?
SENTENCE yes ,  i am .
SENTENCE it sounds really interesting ,  but um  do i need to have any experience for these kinds of projects ?
SENTENCE no ,  not really .
SENTENCE i assume that most students taking the introductory level class would have little or no experience with archeological research ,  but that's ok .
SENTENCE oh ,  good ,  that's a relief .
SENTENCE actually ,  that's why i'm volunteering for the project   to get experience .
SENTENCE what kind of work is it ?
SENTENCE well ,  as you know ,  we're studying the history of the campus this semester .
SENTENCE this used to be an agricultural area and we already know that where the main lecture hall now stands ,  there once were farm house and barn that were erected in the late 17 's .
SENTENCE we are excavating near the lecture hall to see what types of artifacts we find ,  you know ,  things people used in the past that got buried when the campus was constructed .
SENTENCE we've already begun to find some very interesting items ,  like old bottles ,  buttons ,  pieces of clay pottery .
SENTENCE buttons and clay pottery ?
SENTENCE did the old owners leave in such a hurry that they left their clothes and dishes behind ?
SENTENCE hmmm  that's just one of the questions we hope to answer with this project .
SENTENCE wow ,  and it's all right here on campus .
SENTENCE that's right ,  no traveling involved .
SENTENCE i wouldn't expect volunteers to travel to a site ,  especially in the middle of the semester .
SENTENCE we expect to find many more things ,  but we do need more people to help .
SENTENCE so  how many student volunteers are you looking for ?
SENTENCE i'm hoping to get five or six .
SENTENCE i've asked for volunteers in all of the classes i teach ,  but no one has responded .
SENTENCE you are the first person to express interest .
SENTENCE sounds like it could be a lot of work .
SENTENCE is there um  is there any way i can use the experience to get some extra credit in class ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  can i write a paper about it ?
SENTENCE i think it'll depend on what type of work you do in the excavation ,  but i imagine we can arrange something .
SENTENCE actually i've been considering offering extra credit for class because i've been having a tough time getting volunteers .
SENTENCE extra credit is always a good incentive for students .
SENTENCE and how often would you want the volunteers to work ?
SENTENCE we're asking for three or four hours per week ,  depending on your schedule .
SENTENCE a senior researcher ,  i think you know john franklin ,  my assistant ,  is on site every day .
SENTENCE sure ,  i know john .
SENTENCE by the way ,  will there be some sort of training ?
SENTENCE yes ,  er  i want to wait till friday to see how many students volunteer ,  and then i'll schedule a training class next week at a time that's convenient for everyone .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE i'll wait to hear from you .
SENTENCE thanks a lot for accepting me .
QUESTION what was originally located on the site of the lecture hall
OPTION a farmhouse 1
OPTION a pottery factory 0
OPTION a clothing store 0
OPTION a bottle manufacturing plant 0
