SENTENCE all right ,  so today we are moving on to alice neel ,  n e e l .
SENTENCE um   alice neel painted portraits ,  she was born in pennsylvania ,  and she lived from 19   to 1984 .
SENTENCE and i guess you might say ,  she experienced difficulties as an artist .
SENTENCE she was in her 7's ,  before she had her first major solo exhibition .
SENTENCE um ,  and this is due at least in part to eh   or   because of photography .
SENTENCE after photography became regarded as an art form ,  portrait painting became less prestigious6 ,  less respected as an art form .
SENTENCE and ,  well ,  art photography kind of took its place ,  so you can imagine that a portrait artist ,  would have had a hard time finding acceptance .
SENTENCE eh ,  but the real reason i want to look at neel ,  is that i really find her style    eh ,  she had interesting ways of portraying people .
SENTENCE she combined some elements of realism .
SENTENCE what's realism ,  alison ?
SENTENCE it's like painting something exactly how it is ,  so an artist would try to make it as accurate ,  um   and objective as possible .
SENTENCE painting stuff just how it appears on the surface .
SENTENCE ok ,  good .
SENTENCE so neel combined realism with ,  well ,  actually ,  with expressionism .
SENTENCE and that is ?
SENTENCE we ,  we just covered this .
SENTENCE um   it's into emotion ,  like artists are trying to ,  well ,  express themselves through the painting ,  right ?
SENTENCE yep .
SENTENCE the artist is depicting subjective emotions ,  showing the inner reality as interpreted by the artist rather than the outward form .
SENTENCE so the image itself might be distorted or exaggerated in some way .
SENTENCE the expression overrides7 objective representation .
SENTENCE ok ,  so ,  alice neel combined these two styles    yes ?
SENTENCE em   how is that even possible ?
SENTENCE how can your portray something exactly as it is and at the same time distort it with emotions ?
SENTENCE i don't get it .
SENTENCE all right ,  good question .
SENTENCE it is actually a good lead in8 to some of the techniques that neel used ,  that she employed to bridge that contradiction .
SENTENCE in a minute ,  i'll show you some of her portraits ,  and i'll want you to notice a few things about them .
SENTENCE first ,  neel's use of bold color .
SENTENCE all right ?
SENTENCE you'll see she uses color to convey emtion and feeling ,  like the subjects  clothing for instance ,  it appears brighter than it really is .
SENTENCE and the subjects ,  the people being portrayed ,  neel paid special attention to faces .
SENTENCE the way she paints the eyes and how the faces are portrayed ,  these are quite realistic ,  like the realists  work .
SENTENCE but another thing neel did was use elongated ,  sort of stretchy figures .
SENTENCE but didn't a lot of expressionist painters do that ?
SENTENCE so really your are saying that neel's techniques were similar to what other artists were doing .
SENTENCE what was it that she did ,  that was like all her own ?
SENTENCE ok ,  well ,  i think it has to do partly with the way she combined these techniques .
SENTENCE so ,  for example ,  those realistic faces and eyes ,  but bright ,  distorted figures .
SENTENCE it is a mix .
SENTENCE you'll see that her portraits do reflect reality ,  the people that were actually sitting there .
SENTENCE realism was important in the sense that she wanted to show people as they really were ,  much like a photographer would .
SENTENCE but neel wasn't satisfied with photo like realism ,  she went beyond that .
SENTENCE and this is where expressionism comes in .
SENTENCE she believed in capturing the whole person ,  not just what was on the surface ,  that's where the expressionists  distortion is important ,  in an attempt to reveal the subjects  character or personality .
SENTENCE but neel's paintings are distinctive for her time in part because they are portraits .
SENTENCE remember i said that photography and art photography had largely taken the place of portraiture ,  to the extent that some critics had declared the genre of portraiture to be dead .
SENTENCE but neel felt that painting should reflect reality ,  a real realist's stance9 you could say .
SENTENCE and to her ,  individuals ,  people best reflect the reality of their time ,  of the age that they lived in ,  so she painted portraits .
SENTENCE and if you look at her work ,  we are talking in the vicinity of1  three thousand paintings .
SENTENCE if your looked at them ,  it is like this gallery of the whole century ,  an enomous range of subjects  families ,  women ,  children ,  artists ,  people in poverty  these paintings really span class ,  age and gender .
SENTENCE it is like she transformed the genre ,  it is not just formal depictions of presidents and ancestors any more .
SENTENCE but keep in mind that she was doing this when abstract art dominated the art scene .
SENTENCE representations of people weren't fashionable in the art world .
SENTENCE and it wasn't until fairly late in the century that critics recognized the power of what she did .
QUESTION what aspect of alice neel's work does the class mainly discuss
OPTION the ways that her artistic style developed over time 0
OPTION the influence of photography on her portraits 0
OPTION the style she used to portray her subjects 1
OPTION criticism of her approach to realism and expressionism 0
