SENTENCE hi ,  do you have a minute ?
SENTENCE sure ,  how can i help you ?
SENTENCE i have a couple of questions about the career fair next week .
SENTENCE um   well ,  are seniors the only ones who can go ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  you know ,  they are finishing school this year and getting their degrees and everything .
SENTENCE and ,  well ,  it seems like businesses would wanna talk to them and not first year students like me .
SENTENCE no ,  no ,  the career fair is opened to all our students and we encourage anyone who's interested to go check it out .
SENTENCE well ,  that's good to know .
SENTENCE you've seen the flyers and posters around campus ,  i assume .
SENTENCE sure ,  can't miss them .
SENTENCE i mean ,  they all say where and when the fair is ,  just not who should attend .
SENTENCE actually they do ,  but it's in the small print .
SENTENCE uh ,  we should probably make that part easier to reach ,  shouldn't we ?
SENTENCE i'll make a note of that right now .
SENTENCE so ,  do you have any other questions ?
SENTENCE yes ,  actually i do now .
SENTENCE um   since i'd only be going to familiarize myself with the process ,  you know ,  check it out ,  i was wondering if there is anything youwould recommend that i do to prepare .
SENTENCE that's actually a very good question .
SENTENCE well ,  as you know ,  the career fair is generally an opportunity for local businesses to recruit new employees ,  and for soon to be graduates to have interviews with several companies they might be interested in working for .
SENTENCE now ,  in your case ,  even though you wouldn't be looking for employment right now ,  it still wouldn't hurt for you to prepare much like you would if you were looking for a job .
SENTENCE you mean ,  like get my resume together and wear a suit ?
SENTENCE that's a given .
SENTENCE i was thinking more along the lines of doing some research .
SENTENCE the flyers and posters list all the businesses that are sending representatives to the career fair .
SENTENCE um   what's your major or do you to have one yet ?
SENTENCE well ,  i haven't declared a major yet ,  but i'm strongly considering accounting .
SENTENCE see ,  that's part of the reason i wanna go to the fair ,  to help me decide if that's what i really want to study .
SENTENCE that's very wise .
SENTENCE well ,  i suggest that you get on the computer and learn more about the accounting companies in particular that would be attending .
SENTENCE you can learn a lot about companies from their internet websites .
SENTENCE then prepare a list of questions .
SENTENCE questions ,  hmm  so ,  in a way ,  i'll be interviewing them ?
SENTENCE that's one way of looking at it .
SENTENCE think about it for a second .
SENTENCE what do you want to know about working for an accounting firm ?
SENTENCE well ,  there is the job itself ,  and salary of course ,  and working conditions ,  i mean ,  would i have an office ,  or would i work in a big room with a zillion other employees ,  and and maybe about opportunities for advancement .
SENTENCE see ?
SENTENCE those're all important things to know .
SENTENCE after you do some research ,  you'll be able to tailor your questions to the particular company you are talking to .
SENTENCE wow ,  i'm glad i came by here .
SENTENCE so ,  it looks like i've got some work to do .
SENTENCE and if you plan on attending future career fairs ,  i recommend you sign up for one of our interview workshops .
QUESTION what does the woman say is a good way for the student to prepare for speaking to companies'srepresentatives
OPTION take some business classes 0
OPTION familiarize himself with certain businesses beforehand 1
OPTION have questions ready to ask the representatives 1
OPTION talk to people who work for accounting films 0
