SENTENCE hi ,  professor handerson .
SENTENCE that was a really interesting lecture in class today .
SENTENCE thanks ,  tom .
SENTENCE yeah ,  animals  use of deception ,  ways they play tricks on other animals ,  that's a fascinating area .
SENTENCE one we are really just starting to understand .
SENTENCE yeah ,  you know ,  selective adaptations over time are one thing .
SENTENCE oh ,  like ,  non poisonous butterflies ,  that have come to look like poisonous ones .
SENTENCE but the idea that animals of the same species intentionally deceive each other ,  i have never heard that before .
SENTENCE right ,  like ,  there are male frogs who lower their voices and end up sounding bigger than they really are .
SENTENCE so they do that to keep other frogs from invading their territory  ?
SENTENCE right ,  bigger frogs have deeper voices ,  so if a smaller frog can imitate that deep voice .
SENTENCE well    yeah ,  i can see how that might do the trick .
SENTENCE but ,  anyway ,  what i wanted to ask was ,  when you started talking about game theory .
SENTENCE well ,  i know a little bit about it ,  but i am not clear about its use in biology .
SENTENCE yeah ,  it is fairly new to biology .
SENTENCE basically ,  it uses math to predict what an individual would do under certain circumstances .
SENTENCE but for example ,  a buisness sells ,  oh computer ,  say ,  and they want to sell their computers to a big university .
SENTENCE but there is another company bidding too .
SENTENCE so ,  what should they do ?
SENTENCE well ,  try to offer the lowest price so they can compete ,  but still make money .
SENTENCE right ,  they are competing ,  like a game ,  like the frogs .
SENTENCE there are risks with pricing too high ,  the other company might get the sale ,  there is also the number and types of computers to consider .
SENTENCE each company has to find a balance between the cost and benefits .
SENTENCE well ,  game theory creates mathematical models that analyze different conditions like this to predict outcomes .
SENTENCE ok ,  i get that .
SENTENCE but how does it apply to animals  ?
SENTENCE well ,  you know ,  if you are interested in this topic ,  it would be perfect for your term paper .
SENTENCE yeah ,  find three journal articles about this or another topic that interests you and discuss them .
SENTENCE if there is a confict in the conclusions or something ,  that would be important to discuss .
SENTENCE well ,  from what i have looked at dealing with game theory ,  i can't say i understand much of the statistics end .
SENTENCE well ,  i can point you to some that presents fairly basic studies ,  that don't assume much background knowledge .
SENTENCE you'll just need to answer a few specific questions  what was the researchers  hypothesis ?
SENTENCE what did they want to find out ?
SENTENCE and how did they conduct their research ?
SENTENCE an then the conclusions they came to .
SENTENCE learning to interpret these statistics will come later .
QUESTION the man expresses reservations about the suggested topic for his term paper , what is the professor's attitude toward the man's reservations
OPTION she thinks the man has demonstrated the necessary background in statistics 0
OPTION she thinks the man should choose a topic he is more comfortable with 0
OPTION she thinks the rr3an should ask another student to help him understand the statistics 0
OPTION she thinks the man's worries are unnecessary 1
