SENTENCE great .
SENTENCE i hadn't been there for a few years .
SENTENCE did you enjoy the van gogh painting ?
SENTENCE that's the thing .
SENTENCE looks like i have to change my topic .
SENTENCE hmm  we are getting close to the deadline .
SENTENCE you were writing about the theme of night in the paintings of vincent van gogh .
SENTENCE i know .
SENTENCE people don't usually think of van gogh as an artist of nocturnal themes .
SENTENCE they think of brightness ,  sunshine ,  all that yellow and orange .
SENTENCE you are right of course about the intense light associated with his daytime paintings .
SENTENCE but his night paintings don't exactly lack brightness .
SENTENCE that's the paradox that i really like ,  the paradox of painting a nighttime scene using so much color and light .
SENTENCE so i was planning to focus mostly on his painting starry night .
SENTENCE when i went to the museum to look at the actual painting ,  like you told me to .
SENTENCE it wasn't there .
SENTENCE really ?
SENTENCE isn't it part of the permanent collection ?
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE but it's on loan right now to a museum in europe .
SENTENCE ah ,  i see .
SENTENCE well ,  i am strict about having students write about paintings they can observe firsthand .
SENTENCE well ,  i found another painting i could study instead .
SENTENCE i read that there are two paintings called starry night .
SENTENCE the first one was done by the french realist painter millet .
SENTENCE it may have been the inspiration for van gogh's painting .
SENTENCE millet's painting is located near my family's house in connecticut .
SENTENCE and i am going there this weekend and could study it then .
SENTENCE i made sure it's not out on loan .
SENTENCE that definitely would work then .
SENTENCE van gogh copied many of millet's compositions .
SENTENCE we know that he really admired millet's work .
SENTENCE and a lot of us think van gogh saw this particular painting by millet in paris in the late 17 's .
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE although millet was a realist painter ,  and van gogh a post impressionist ,  the two paintings still share lots of features ,  not just the name .
SENTENCE the most striking shared feature has got to be the amazing light effects .
SENTENCE i am excited to go see it .
SENTENCE but one other thing  i was thinking about getting a head start on my next assignment while i am at the gallery in connecticut ,  the assignment on miniatures .
SENTENCE they have a lot of miniature portraits of children as part of their permanent collection .
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE so i figured i could also get started on that essay ,  study a few while i am there .
SENTENCE i'd focus on the meaning of the objects that some of the children are holding ,  some are holding flowers ,  one child has a rattle ,  another a toy violin that would be fine .
SENTENCE uh ,  those objects we call them attributes .
SENTENCE the attributes chosen to be included in a particular miniature was often meant to communicate parents  hopes and dreams for their child .
SENTENCE so i think you'll learn a lot about how people viewed children at the time the miniature paintings were done .
QUESTION why is the student unable to write about the painting by van gogh
OPTION it is not on the list of approved paintings that the professor provided 0
OPTION it is not available for the student to study in person 1
OPTION the student does not have enough background knowledge to write about it 0
OPTION another student has already chosen to write about it 0
