SENTENCE as we have seen ,  the second half of the 18th century was an exciting time in europe  it was not only an age of great invention ,  but social changes also led to a rise in all sorts of entertainment ,  from reading to museums ,  to travel .
SENTENCE and finding himself in the middle of this excitement was an accomplished french painter named philippe jacques de loutherbourg .
SENTENCE loutherbourg arrived in england in 1771 ,  and immediately went to work as a set designer at the famous drury lane theater in london .
SENTENCE from his first shows ,  loutherbourg showed a knack for imagination and stage design ,  all in the interest of creating illusions that allowed the audience to suspend disbelief completely .
SENTENCE he accomplished this by giving the stage a greater feeling of depth ,  which he did by cutting up some of the rigid background scenery ,  and placing it at various angles and distances from the audience .
SENTENCE another realistic touch was using three dimensional objects on the set ,  like rocks and bushes as opposed to two dimensional painted scenery .
SENTENCE he also paid much more attention to lighting and sound than had been done before .
SENTENCE now ,  these sets were so elaborate that many people attended the theater more for them than for the actors or the story .
SENTENCE at the time ,  people were wild for travel and for experiencing new places  but not everyone could afford it .
SENTENCE loutherbourg outdid himself ,  however ,  with a show that he set up in his own home .
SENTENCE he called it the  eidophusikon  .
SENTENCE eidophusikon  means something like representation of nature ,  and that's exactly what he intended to do  create realistic moving scenes that change before the audiences  eyes .
SENTENCE in this ,  he synthesized all his tricks from drury lane  mechanical motions ,  sound ,  light ,  other special effects to create ,  if you will ,  an early multimedia production .
SENTENCE the  eidophusikon  was loutherbourg's attempt to release painting from the constraints of the picture frame .
SENTENCE after all ,  even the most action filled exciting painting can represent only one moment in time  and any illusion of movement is gone after the first glance .
SENTENCE but loutherbourg ,  like other contemporary painters ,  wanted to add the dimension of time to his paintings .
SENTENCE you know ,  the popular thinking is that loutherbourg was influenced by landscape painting .
SENTENCE but why can't we say that the  eidophusikon  actually influenced the painters ?
SENTENCE at the very least we have to consider that it was more    it was more of a mutual thing .
SENTENCE we know ,  for example ,  that the important english landscape painter thomas gainsborough attended almost all of the early performances ,  and his later paintings are notable for their increased color and dynamic use of light .
SENTENCE loutherbourg's influence on the theater though ,  he was incredibly influential  the way he brought together design and lighting and sound as a unified feature of the stage ,  can easily be seen in english theater's subsequent emphasis on lighting and motion .
SENTENCE now ,  the  eidophusikon  stage was actually a box  a few meters wide ,  a couple meters tall and a couple meters deep .
SENTENCE that is ,  the action took place within this box .
SENTENCE this was much smaller of course than the usual stage .
SENTENCE but ,  it also allowed loutherbourg to concentrate the lighting to better effect .
SENTENCE also ,  the audience was in the dark ,  which wouldn't be a common feature of the theater until a hundred years later .
SENTENCE the show consisted of a series of scenes ,  for example ,  a view of london from sunrise that changes as the day moves on  mechanical figures ,  such as cattle ,  moved across the scene ,  and ships sailed along the river .
SENTENCE but what really got people was the attention to detail ,  much like his work at drury lane .
SENTENCE so ,  for example ,  he painted very realistic ships ,  and varied their size depending on their distance from the audience .
SENTENCE small boats moved more quickly across the foreground than larger ones did that were closer to the horizon .
SENTENCE other effects ,  like waves ,  were also very convincing .
SENTENCE they reflected sunlight or moonlight depending on the time of day or night .
SENTENCE even the colors changed as they would in nature .
SENTENCE sound and light were important in making his productions realistic .
SENTENCE he used a great number of lamps ,  and he was able to change colors of light by using variously colored pieces of glass ,  to create effects like passing clouds that suddenly change in color .
SENTENCE furthermore ,  he used effects to make patterns of shadow and light ,  rather than using the uniform lighting that was common at the time .
SENTENCE and many of the sound effects he pioneered are still in use today ,  like creating thunder by pulling on one of the corners of a thin copper sheet .
SENTENCE one of his most popular scenes was of a storm .
SENTENCE and there is a story that on one occasion ,  an actual storm passed over head during the show .
SENTENCE and some people went outside ,  and they claimed loutherbourg's thunder was actually better than the real thunder .
QUESTION what does the professor mainly discuss
OPTION the history of set design in english theater 0
OPTION a french painter's innovations in set design 1
OPTION a kind of play popular in eighteenth century english theater 0
OPTION a leading playwright of the eighteenth century 0
