SENTENCE now ,  you may not have heard of the copper basin .
SENTENCE it's in the eastern united states ,  in the tennessee river valley .
SENTENCE it got its name because settlers discovered copper there in 1843 .
SENTENCE and soon afterwards ,  it supported one of the largest metal mining operations in america .
SENTENCE at one time ,  four mining companies employed 25   workers in the copper basin .
SENTENCE for that time period ,  it was a huge operation .
SENTENCE well ,  this mining operation turned the copper basin into a desert .
SENTENCE in the 184's ,  when mining operations started ,  it was a dense green forest .
SENTENCE but in the 194's ,  1   years later ,  it was as barren as the moon .
SENTENCE efforts to reclaim the land and restore the basin to the fertile valley it once was well ,  actually ,  those efforts are still ongoing .
SENTENCE it's been a long and tedious process .
SENTENCE in fact ,  it was many years before any results were seen .
SENTENCE copper mining had gone on there for more than 9  years !
SENTENCE the damage couldn't be reversed overnight .
SENTENCE although i should mention that by 1996 ,  the water in one of the rivers flowing through the basin was clean enough that it was the site of the olympic whitewaterkayaking competition .
SENTENCE and that river is still used now for recreation .
SENTENCE but anyway let's analyze the problem .
SENTENCE it wasn't the mining itself that caused such massive destruction .
SENTENCE it was what happened after the copper ore was extracted from the mines .
SENTENCE it was a process called heap roasting .
SENTENCE copper ore contains sulfur .
SENTENCE and heap roasting was a way to burn away the sulfur in the copper ,  so they'd be left with something closer to pure copper .
SENTENCE well ,  in the process ,  large vats of raw copper ore are burned slowly ,  for two or three months actually ,  to lower the sulfur content .
SENTENCE and this burning ,  well let's look at the results .
SENTENCE first ,  the mines were fairly remote ,  so there was no way to bring coal or other fuel to keep the fires going .
SENTENCE so they cut down local trees for fuel .
SENTENCE and like i said ,  the fires burned for months .
SENTENCE uh that's a lot of fires and a lot of trees .
SENTENCE deforestation was occurring at a rapid rate .
SENTENCE and it was accelerated by the smoke from the burning ore .
SENTENCE big clouds of sulfuric smoke ,  which was toxic to the trees ,  formed over the areas .
SENTENCE trees that hadn't been cut for fuel were killed by the fumes .
SENTENCE the sulfur also mixed with the air and created sulfur dioxide .
SENTENCE and the sulfur dioxide settled in the clouds fell to the land in droplets of rain and sank into the soil .
SENTENCE this is what we now call acid rain .
SENTENCE you've probably heard of it .
SENTENCE but no one used the term back then .
SENTENCE anyway the acid rain created highly acidic soil .
SENTENCE well ,  soon the soil became so acidic that nothing could grow ,  nothing at all .
SENTENCE vegetation and wild life disappeared .
SENTENCE and it wasn't just the land and the air ,  it was the water too .
SENTENCE what do you think happen to the rivers ?
SENTENCE well ,  there are no trees to absorb the rain ,  and there was a lot of rain !
SENTENCE so the rain eroded the soil and swept it into the rivers .
SENTENCE this is called silting ,  when soil particles are washed into the rivers .
SENTENCE and the silting continued at an alarming rate .
SENTENCE but this was toxic soil and toxic runoff ,  the acid and metals in the soil made the once clear rivers flow bright orange .
SENTENCE so it was really that one step in the process of producing copper the problems just built up and up until there was a desert where a beautiful forest used to be .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE now let's look at reforestation and land reclamation efforts .
QUESTION according to the lecture, why was heap roasting used in the producing of copper
OPTION to make copper ore easier to transport 0
OPTION to make copper ore safe for workers to handle 0
OPTION to transform copper ore into fuel 0
OPTION to remove impurities from copper ore 1
