SENTENCE now when i mention the terms  boom and bust  ,  what does that bring to mind ?
SENTENCE the dot com crash of the  9's .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE the boom in the late 199's when all those new internet companies sprang up and were then sold for huge amounts of money .
SENTENCE then the bust around 2    2  1 when many of those same internet companies went out of business .
SENTENCE of course ,  booms aren't always followed by busts .
SENTENCE we've certainly seen times when local economies expanded rapidly for a while and then went back to a normal pace of growth .
SENTENCE but ,  there's a type of rapid expansion ,  what might be called a hysterical or irrational boom that pretty much always leads to a bust .
SENTENCE see ,  people often create and intensify a boom when they get carried away by some new industry that seems like it will make them lots of money fast .
SENTENCE you'd think that by the 9's ,  people would have learned from the past .
SENTENCE if they did ,  well ,  look at tulips .
SENTENCE tulips ?
SENTENCE you mean like the flower ?
SENTENCE exactly .
SENTENCE for instance ,  do you have any idea where tulips are from ?
SENTENCE originally i mean .
SENTENCE well ,  the netherlands ,  right ?
SENTENCE that's what most people think ,  but no .
SENTENCE they are not native to the netherlands ,  or even europe .
SENTENCE tulips actually hail from an area that chinese call the celestial mountains in central asia .
SENTENCE a very remote mountainous region .
SENTENCE it was turkish nomads who first discovered tulips and spread them slowly westward .
SENTENCE now ,  around the 16th century ,  europeans were traveling to istanbul and turkey as merchants and diplomats .
SENTENCE and the turks often gave the europeans tulip bulbs as gifts which they would carry home with them .
SENTENCE for the europeans ,  tulips were totally unheard of .
SENTENCE er a great novelty .
SENTENCE the first bulb to show up in the netherlands ,  the merchant who received them roasted and ate them !
SENTENCE he thought they were kind of onion .
SENTENCE it turns out that the netherlands was an ideal country for growing tulips .
SENTENCE it had the right kind of sandy soil for one thing ,  but also ,  it was a wealthy nation with a growing economy ,  willing to spend lots of money on new exotic things .
SENTENCE plus ,  the dutch had a history of gardening .
SENTENCE wealthy people would compete ,  spending enormous amounts of money to buy the rarest flowers for their gardens .
SENTENCE soon tulips were beginning to show up in different colors as growers tried to breed them specifically for colors which would make them even more valuable .
SENTENCE but they were never completely sure what they would get .
SENTENCE some of the most prized tulips were white with purple streaks ,  or red with yellow streaks on the petals ,  even a dark purple tulip that was very much prized .
SENTENCE what happened then was a craze for these specialized tulips .
SENTENCE we called that craze  tulip mania  .
SENTENCE so ,  here we've got all the conditions for an irrational boom  a prospering economy ,  so more people had more disposable income money to spend on luxuries ,  but they weren't experienced at investing their new wealth .
SENTENCE then along comes a thrilling new commodity .
SENTENCE sure the first specimens were just plain old red tulips ,  but they could be bred into some extraordinary variations ,  like the dark purple tulip .
SENTENCE and finally ,  you have an unregulated market place ,  no government constraints ,  where prices could explode .
SENTENCE and explode they did ,  starting in the 163's .
SENTENCE there was always much more demand for tulips than supply .
SENTENCE tulips didn't bloom frequently like roses .
SENTENCE tulips bloomed once in the early spring .
SENTENCE and that was it for the year .
SENTENCE eventually ,  specially bred multicolored tulips became so valuable ,  well ,  according to records ,  one tulip bulb was worth 24 tons of wheat ,  or a thousand pounds of cheese .
SENTENCE one particular tulip bulb was sold and exchanged for a small ship .
SENTENCE in other words ,  tulips were literally worth their weight in gold .
SENTENCE as demand grew ,  people began selling promissory notes guaranteeing the future delivery of prized tulip bulbs .
SENTENCE the buyers of these pieces of paper would resell the notes at marked up prices .
SENTENCE these promissory notes kept changing hands from buyer to buyer until the tulip was ready for delivery .
SENTENCE but it was all pure speculation because as i said ,  there was no way to know if the bulb was really going to produce the variety ,  the color that was promised .
SENTENCE but that didn't matter to the owner of the note .
SENTENCE the owner only cared about having that piece of paper so it could be traded later at a profit .
SENTENCE and people were borrowing ,  mortgaging their homes in many cases to obtain those bits of paper because they were sure they found an easy way to make money .
SENTENCE so now ,  you've got all the ingredients for a huge bust .
SENTENCE and bust it did ,  when one cold february morning in 1637 ,  a group of bulb traders got together and discovered that suddenly there were no bidders .
SENTENCE nobody wanted to buy .
SENTENCE panic spread like wild fire and the tulip market collapsed totally .
QUESTION why does the professor mention a merchant who ate tulip bulbs
OPTION to explain how the turks introduce the flower to european visitors 0
OPTION to explain what happened to tulip bulbs that did not produce desirable colors 0
OPTION to give an example of one way that the rich in the netherlands showed off their wealth 0
OPTION to illustrate her point that europeans were unfamiliar with the flower 1
