SENTENCE professor jennings ,  i hope i am not interrupting ,  but you wanted to see me ?
SENTENCE oh ,  hello ,  suzane .
SENTENCE yes ,  yes ,  come right in .
SENTENCE how are you doing ?
SENTENCE well ,  good .
SENTENCE the reason i wanted to talk to you was that while you were presenting you linguistics project in class the other day ,  well ,  you know ,  i was thinking you are a perfect candidate for the dean's undergraduate research fund .
SENTENCE um    professor  ,  i am really sure what the   um    dean    .
SENTENCE undergraduate research fund is    it is a mouthful i suppose .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE here's the thing .
SENTENCE every year the school has a pool of money to fund a number of research projects of undergraduate students .
SENTENCE because as you can imagine ,  indepth research often requires monetary support .
SENTENCE i would like to expand on my research .
SENTENCE good .
SENTENCE first a panel of professors reviews the applications for the grant .
SENTENCE and then they decide which project should be funded .
SENTENCE the alloted money could be used for travel expenses ,  to attend a conference for example ,  or things like supplies ,  research equipment ,  resources that are necessary to conduct the research .
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE and i think you should apply for this grant .
SENTENCE your project is definitely eligibleexpand it if you have the necessary resources .
SENTENCE so ,  does it sound like something you would be interested in ?
SENTENCE oh ,  yeah ,  sounds great .
SENTENCE i thought the topic i work on was very interesting ,  and it is certainly relevant to my linguistics major  .
SENTENCE i assume it will also look good when i try to get into graduate school .
SENTENCE but how do i apply for the grant ?
SENTENCE it is pretty straightforward .
SENTENCE a brief description of your proposed project ,  and an estimated budget .
SENTENCE how much you need to spend and what you intend to spend it on .
SENTENCE also a glowing letter of recommendation from a linguistics professor wouldn't hurt ,  which i'd be more than happy to write up for you .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE cool .
SENTENCE i am pretty clear on how to carry out my project ,  but i am not sure where i can find more information on the subject .
SENTENCE well ,  i have already thought of that .
SENTENCE there's this private library at a university in boston .
SENTENCE by the way ,  because i graduated from that school ,  i can get you access to it ,  no problem .
SENTENCE you see ,  the library houses lots of unpublished documents that are relevant to your topic .
SENTENCE so i can put that on the application for the grant ,  that i plan on using material from that library for my research and figure a trip to boston into my budget ?
SENTENCE exactly .
SENTENCE i really think judging from your work in class ,  and the relevance and clarity of this project ,  you really have a good chance of getting the funding .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE i'll definitely apply then .
SENTENCE the sooner the better  .
SENTENCE it is due in a few weeks .
SENTENCE gook luck !
SENTENCE and i'll get that letter written up right  .
QUESTION why does the professor want to talk to the student
OPTION to discuss her application to graduate school 0
OPTION to discuss a possible internship at the school's library 0
OPTION to encourage her to increase the scope of her research project 1
OPTION to suggest some changes to improve her research project 0
