SENTENCE in order to really study the social history of the middle ages ,  you have to understand the role of spices .
SENTENCE now ,  this might sound a little spurring ,  even a little strange .
SENTENCE but what seem like little things now were back then actually rather big things .
SENTENCE so first let's define what a spice is .
SENTENCE technically speaking ,  a spice is part of an aromatic plant that is not a leaf or herb .
SENTENCE spices can come from tree bark like cinnamon ,  plant roots like ginger ,  flower buds like cloves .
SENTENCE and in the middle ages .
SENTENCE europeans were familiar with lots of different spices ,  most important being pepper ,  cloves ,  ginger ,  cinnamon ,  maize and nutmeg .
SENTENCE these spices literarily dominated the way europeans lived for centuries ,  how they traded and even how they used their imaginations .
SENTENCE so why this medieval fascination with spices ?
SENTENCE we can boil it down to there general ideas briefly .
SENTENCE one was cost and rarity .
SENTENCE uh two was exotic taste and fragrance .
SENTENCE and third ,  mysterious origins and kinds of mythical status .
SENTENCE now for cost and rarity ,  spices aren't native to europe and they had to be imported .
SENTENCE spices only grew in the east indies and of course transportation costs were incredibly valuable even from the very beginning .
SENTENCE here is an example .
SENTENCE in 4 8 ad ,  the gothic general who captured rome demanded payment .
SENTENCE he wanted 5    pounds of gold among other things but he also wanted 3    pounds of pepper .
SENTENCE maybe that would give you an idea of exactly where pepper stood at the time .
SENTENCE by the middle ages ,  spices were regarded as so important and expensive they were used in diplomacy ,  as gifts by heads of state and ambassadors .
SENTENCE now for the taste .
SENTENCE the diet then was relatively bland ,  compared to today's .
SENTENCE there wasn't much variety .
SENTENCE especially the aristocracy who tended to eat a lot of meat ,  they were always looking for new ways to prepare it ,  new sources ,  new tastes and this is where spices came in .
SENTENCE now ,  this is a good point to mention one of the biggest myths about spices .
SENTENCE it's commonly said that medieval europeans wanted spices to cover up the taste of spoiled meat .
SENTENCE but this isn't really true .
SENTENCE anyone who had to worry about spoiled meat couldn't afford spices in the first place .
SENTENCE if you could afford spices ,  you could definitely afford fresh meat .
SENTENCE we also have evidence that various medieval markets employed a kind of police to make sure that people did not sell spoiled food ,  and if you were caught doing it ,  you were subject to various fines ,  humiliating public punishments .
SENTENCE so what actually was true was this  in order to have meat for the winter ,  people would preserve it in salt ,  not a spice .
SENTENCE spices actually aren't very effective as preservatives .
SENTENCE and throughout winter ,  they would eat salted meat ,  but the taste of the stuff could grow really boring and depressing after a while .
SENTENCE so the cook started looking for new ways to improve the taste and spices were the answer ,  which brings us to mysterious origins and mythical status .
SENTENCE now the ancient romans had a thriving spice trade and they sent their ships to the east and back .
SENTENCE but when rome collapsed in the fifth century and the middle ages began ,  direct trade stopped ,  and so did that kind of hands on knowledge of travel and geography .
SENTENCE spices now came by way of the trade routes with lots of intermediaries between the producer and the consumer .
SENTENCE so these spices took on an air of mystery .
SENTENCE their origins were shrouded in exotic travels .
SENTENCE they had the allure of the unknown ,  of wild places .
SENTENCE myths grew up of fantasy lands ,  magical faraway places made entirely of food and spices .
SENTENCE and to that ,  spices themselves had always been considered special or magical not just for eating and this was already true in the ancient world where legends about spices were abundant .
SENTENCE spices inspired the medieval imagination .
SENTENCE they were used as medicines to ward off diseases ,  and mixed into perfumes ,  incent .
SENTENCE they were used in religious rituals for thousands of years .
SENTENCE they took on a life of their own and they inspired the medieval imagination ,  spurred on the age of discovery in the 145th and 16th centuries .
SENTENCE when famous explorers like columbus and da gama and magellan left europe in their ships ,  they weren't looking for a new world .
SENTENCE they were looking for spices .
SENTENCE and we know what important historical repercussions some of those voyages had .
QUESTION what is the main purpose of the lecture
OPTION to explore the use of spices in conking in the middle ages 0
OPTION to explain the significance of spices for medieval society 1
OPTION to describe how the spice trade evolved in medieval europe 0
OPTION to examine changes in the role that spices played in the middle ages 0
