SENTENCE ok ,  we've been talking about early agriculture in the near east .
SENTENCE so let's concentrate on one site and see what we can learn from it .
SENTENCE let's look at catalhoyuk .
SENTENCE um  i'd better write that down .
SENTENCE catalhoyuk ,  that's about as close as we get in english .
SENTENCE it's turkish ,  really .
SENTENCE the site's in modern day turkey ,  and who knows what the original inhabitants called it .
SENTENCE anyway ,  uh catalhoyuk wasn't the first agricultural settlement in the near east ,  but it was pretty early ,  settled about 9 ,     years ago in the neolithic period .
SENTENCE and    um   the settlement  uh  town really ,  lasted about a thousand years and grew to a size of about eight or ten thousand people .
SENTENCE that certainly makes it one of the largest towns in the world at that time .
SENTENCE one of the things that make the settlement of this size impressive is the time period .
SENTENCE it's the neolithic ,  remember ,  the late stone age .
SENTENCE so the people that lived there had only stone tools ,  no metals .
SENTENCE so everything they accomplished ,  like building this town ,  they did with just stone ,  plus wood ,  bricks ,  that sort of thing .
SENTENCE but you got to remember that it wasn't just any stone they had ,  they had obsidian .
SENTENCE and um   obsidian is a black ,  volcanic ,  well ,  almost like glass .
SENTENCE it flakes very nicely into really sharp points .
SENTENCE the sharpest tools of the entire stone age were made of obsidian .
SENTENCE and uh   the people of catalhoyuk got theirs from further inland ,  from central turkey ,  traded for it ,  probably .
SENTENCE anyway ,  what i wanna focus on is the way the town was built .
SENTENCE the houses are all rectangular ,  one storey ,  made of sun dried bricks .
SENTENCE but what's really interesting is that there are no spaces between them ,  no streets in other words ,  and so generally no doors on the houses either .
SENTENCE people walked around on the roofs and entered the house through a hatchway on the roof ,  down a wooden ladder .
SENTENCE you can still see the diagonal marks of the ladders in the plaster on the inside walls .
SENTENCE once you were in the house ,  there would be one main room and a couple of small rooms for storage .
SENTENCE the main room had the hearths ,  for cooking and for heat .
SENTENCE it would've been pretty cold during the winters .
SENTENCE and it also looks like they made their tools near the fire .
SENTENCE there tends to be a lot of obsidian flakes and chips in the hearth ashes ,  but no chimney .
SENTENCE the smoke just went out the same hatchway that people used for going in and out themselves .
SENTENCE so there would have been an open fire inside the house with only one hole in the roof to let the smoke out .
SENTENCE you and i would have found it a bit too smoky in there .
SENTENCE you can see on the walls ,  which they plastered and decorated with paintings .
SENTENCE they ended up with a layer of black soot on them ,  and so did people's lungs .
SENTENCE the bones found in the graves show a layer of soot on the inside of the ribs .
SENTENCE and that's another unusual feature of catalhoyuk ,  the burial sites .
SENTENCE the graves have all been found under the houses ,  right under the floors .
SENTENCE and it maybe this burial custom that explains why the houses were packed in so tightly without streets .
SENTENCE i mean ,  you might think it was for protection or something ,  but there has been no evidence found yet of any violent attack that would indicate that kind of danger .
SENTENCE it maybe they wanted to live as near as possible to their ancestors  graves and be buried near them themselves .
SENTENCE but it makes a good point .
SENTENCE based on excavations ,  we can know the layout of the houses and the location of the graves ,  but we're only guessing when we tried to say why they did it that way .
SENTENCE that's the way it is with archeology .
SENTENCE you are dealing with the physical remains that people left behind .
SENTENCE we have no sure access to what they thought and how they felt about things .
SENTENCE i mean it's interesting to speculate .
SENTENCE and the physical artifacts can give us clues ,  but there is a lot we can't really know .
SENTENCE so ,  for instance ,  their art .
SENTENCE they painted on the plastered walls and usually they painted hunting scenes with wild animals in them .
SENTENCE now they did hunt and they also raised cereal crops and kept sheep ,  but we don't know why so many of the paintings are of hunting scenes .
SENTENCE was it supposed to have religious or magical significance ?
SENTENCE that's the kind of thing we can only guess at based on clues .
SENTENCE and hopefully ,  further excavation of catalhoyuk will yield more clues .
SENTENCE but we'll probably never know for sure .
QUESTION what does the professor say about catalhoyuk graves
OPTION the graves contained precious stones 0
OPTION many people were buried in each grave 0
OPTION the grave were located under the house floors 1
OPTION the graves contained ashes rather than bones 0
