SENTENCE ok ,  so we have been talking about theories that deal with the effects of human activity on the climate .
SENTENCE but today i'd like to talk a little bit about other theories that can explain variations in climate .
SENTENCE and one of the best known is called the milankovitch hypothesis .
SENTENCE now what the milankovitch hypothesis is about ?
SENTENCE it says that variations in earth's movements ,  specifically in its orbit around the sun ,  these variations lead to differences in the amount of solar energy that reaches the earth .
SENTENCE and it is these differences in the amount of energy that's reaching earth from the sun ,  it is what causes variations in earth's climate .
SENTENCE ok ,  a lot of people think of earth's orbit around the sun as being perfectly circular ,  as smooth and as regular as ,  say ,  the way that hands move on a well  made watch ,  but it just doesn't work that way .
SENTENCE you are probably aware that the earth's orbit around the sun ,  it is not shaped like a perfect circle .
SENTENCE it is more of an oval ,  it is elliptical .
SENTENCE but the shape of this orbit isn't consistent ,  it varies over time ,  over a period of about a thousand years .
SENTENCE sometimes it is a little more circular ,  sometimes it is more elliptical .
SENTENCE and when earth's orbit is more elliptical ,  earth is actually closer to the sun during part of the year .
SENTENCE which makes earth ,  and in particular ,  the northern hemisphere ,  warmer .
SENTENCE and why is that important ?
SENTENCE well ,  because most of the planet's glaciers are in the northern hemisphere ,  and if it gets too warm ,  then glaciers will stop forming .
SENTENCE and we've already talked about how that affects earth's overall temperature .
SENTENCE the second movement involved in the hypothesis has to do with axial tilt .
SENTENCE the tilt of earth's axis ,  that imaginery pole that runs through the center of the earth .
SENTENCE and depending on the angle it tilts at ,  the seasons can be more or less severe .
SENTENCE it makes winters cooler and summers warmer ,  or what some might say it is doing now ,  it makes summers less hot ,  and more importantly ,  the winters less cold .
SENTENCE which just like what i mentioned before ,  can also stop ,  prevent glaciers from forming ,  or cause them to melt .
SENTENCE there is a third movement the hypothesis covers called precession .
SENTENCE precession ,  basically is the change in the direction of earth's axis of rotation .
SENTENCE it will take me a million years to explain even just the basics of this movement as precession is quite complex .
SENTENCE and all these details are way beyond our scope .
SENTENCE what's important for you to understand is that these three movements ,  well ,  they are cyclical ,  and they work together to form ,  to produce complex but regular variations in earth's climate ,  and lead to the growth or decline of glaciers .
SENTENCE now ,  when milankovitch first proposed this theory in the 192's ,  many of his colleagues were skeptical .
SENTENCE milankovitch didn't have any proof .
SENTENCE actually there wouldn't be any evidence to support his hypothesis until the 197's ,  when oceanographers were able to drill deep into the seafloor and collect samples ,  samples which were then analyzed by geologists .
SENTENCE and from these samples they were able to put together a history of ocean temperatures going back hundreds of thousands of years ,  and this showed that earth's climate had changed pretty much the way milankovitch's hypothesis suggested it would .
SENTENCE so this evidence was pretty strong support for the milankovitch hypothesis .
SENTENCE and by the 198's ,  most people accepted this theory .
SENTENCE however ,  in the late 198's ,  some scientists were exploring devil 's hole ,  which is basically an extensive water filled cave ,  far from the ocean ,  in nevada2western united states .
SENTENCE over millions of years ,  groundwater left deposits of a mineral  ,  on the rock within devil's hole .
SENTENCE and by studying these clacite deposits ,  we can determine the climate conditions ,  the temperatures over the last half million years .
SENTENCE well ,  the devil 's hole findings contradicted the ones obtained during the 197's ,  so basically the question was ,  were the ages of one or both the samples were wrong ,  or were scientists misunderstanding the significance of the evidence .
SENTENCE well ,  in the 199's ,  a new study was done on the two samples .
SENTENCE and the ocean floor samples were found to be correct ,  as were the samples from devil's hole .
SENTENCE and now it is generally believed that the sample from devil's hole correspond to variations in local climate ,  in the western united states ,  rather than global climate changes .
QUESTION what is the significance of the evidence found on the ocean floor
OPTION it negated earlier evidence that milankovitch found 0
OPTION it led the development of new methods to measure global climate changes 0
OPTION it helped milankovitch first formulate his hypothesis 0
OPTION it confirmed milankovitch's hypothesis 1
