SENTENCE we've said that the term  cognition  refers to mental states like  knowing and believing ,  and to mental processes that we use to arrive at those states .
SENTENCE so for example ,  reasoning is a cognitive process ,  so is perception .
SENTENCE we use information that we perceive through our senses to help us make decisions ,  to arrive at beliefs and so on .
SENTENCE and then there are memory and imagination which relate to the knowledge of things that happen in the past or may happen in the future .
SENTENCE so perceiving ,  remembering ,  imagining are all internal mental processes that lead to knowing or believing .
SENTENCE yet ,  each of these processes has limitations and can lead us to hold mistaken beliefs or make false predictions .
SENTENCE take memory for example ,  maybe you have heard of studies in which people hear a list of related words .
SENTENCE um  ,  let's say a list of different kinds of fruit .
SENTENCE after hearing this list ,  they are presented with several additional words .
SENTENCE in this case ,  we'll say the additional words were  blanket  and  cherry  .
SENTENCE neither of these words was on the original list ,  and while people will claim correctly that  blanket  was not on the original list ,  they'll also claim incorrectly that the word  cherry  was on the list .
SENTENCE most people are convinced they heard the word  cherry  on the original list .
SENTENCE why did they make such a simple mistake ?
SENTENCE well ,  we think because the words on the list were so closely related ,  the brain stored only the gist of what it heard .
SENTENCE for example ,  that all the items on the list were types of fruit .
SENTENCE when we tap our memory ,  our brains often fill in details and quite often these details are actually false .
SENTENCE we also see this  fill in  phenomenon with perception .
SENTENCE perception is the faculty that allows us to process information in the present as we take it in via our senses .
SENTENCE again ,  studies have shown that people will fill in information that they thought they perceived even when they didn't .
SENTENCE for example ,  experiments have been done where a person hears a sentence ,  but it is missing the word that logically completes it .
SENTENCE they'll claim to hear that word even though it was never said .
SENTENCE so if i were to say er the sun rises in the and then fail to complete the sentence ,  people will often claim to have heard the word  east  .
SENTENCE in cognitive psychology ,  we have a phrase for this kind of inaccurate  filling in of details     it's called  a blind spot .
SENTENCE the term originally refers to the place in our eyes where the optic nerve connects the back of the eye to the brain .
SENTENCE there are no photoreceptors in the area where the nerve connects to the eye .
SENTENCE so that particular area of the eye is incapable of detecting images .
SENTENCE it produces  a blind spot  in our field of vision .
SENTENCE we aren't aware of it ,  because the brain fills in what it thinks belongs in the image ,  so the picture always appears complete to us .
SENTENCE but the term  blind spot  has also taken on a more general meaning    it refers to people being unaware of a bias that may affect their judgment about a subject .
SENTENCE and the same  blind spot phenomenon  that affects memory and perception also affects imagination .
SENTENCE imagination is a faculty that some people use to anticipate future events in their lives .
SENTENCE but the ease with which we imagine details can lead to unrealistic expectations and can bias our decisions .
SENTENCE so um peter ,  suppose i ask you to imagine a lunch salad ,  no problem ,  right ?
SENTENCE but i bet you imagine specific ingredients .
SENTENCE did yours have tomatoes ,  onion ,  lettuce ?
SENTENCE mine did .
SENTENCE our brains fill in all sorts of details that might not be part of other people's image of a salad ,  which could lead to disappointment for us .
SENTENCE if the next time we order a salad in a restaurant ,  we have our imagined salad in mind ,  that's not necessarily what we'll get on our plate .
SENTENCE the problem is not that we imagine things ,  but that we assume what we've imagined is accurate .
SENTENCE we should be aware that our imagination has this built in feature ,  the blind spot ,  which makes our predictions fall short of reality .
QUESTION what was demonstrated by the study on perception that the professor mentions
OPTION people who misheard sentences were most likely to make poor decisions 0
OPTION decision making is ultimately influenced by many factors 0
OPTION the brain can automatically supply details that were not actually perceived 1
OPTION words that are heard last are the most easily remembered 0
