SENTENCE we are going to start a study of sunspots today ,  and i think you'll find it rather interesting .
SENTENCE now i'm going to assume that you know that sunspots ,  in the most basic terms ,  are dark spots on the sun's surface .
SENTENCE that will do for now .
SENTENCE the ancient chinese were the first to record observations of sunspots as early as the year 165 .
SENTENCE when later european astronomers wrote about sunspots ,  they didn't believe that the spots were actually on the sun .
SENTENCE that's because of their belief at the time that the heavenly bodies ,  the sun ,  moon ,  stars ,  and planets ,  were perfect ,  without any flaws or blemishes .
SENTENCE so the opinion was the spots were actually something else ,  like shadows of planets crossing the sun's face .
SENTENCE and this was the thinking of european astronomers until the introduction of the telescope ,  which brings us to our old friend ,  galileo .
SENTENCE in the early 16 's ,  based on his observations of sunspots .
SENTENCE galileo proposed a new hypothesis .
SENTENCE he pointed out that the shape of sunspots ,  well ,  the sunspots weren't circular .
SENTENCE if they were shadows of the planets ,  they would be circular ,  right ?
SENTENCE so that was a problem for the prevailing view .
SENTENCE and he also noticed that the shape of the sunspots changed as they seemed to move across the sun's surface .
SENTENCE maybe a particular sunspot was sort of square ,  then later it would become more lopsided ,  then later something else .
SENTENCE so there is another problem with the shadow hypothesis ,  because the shape of a planet doesn't change .
SENTENCE what galileo proposed was that sunspots were indeed a feature of the sun ,  but he didn't know what kind of feature .
SENTENCE he proposed that they might be clouds in the atmosphere ,  the solar atmosphere ,  especially because they seemed to change shape and there was no predicting the changes ,  at least nothing galileo could figure out .
SENTENCE that random shape changing would be consistent with the spots being clouds .
SENTENCE over the next couple hundred years ,  a lot of hypotheses were tossed around .
SENTENCE the spots were mountains or holes in the solar atmosphere through which the dark surface of the sun could be seen .
SENTENCE then in 1843 ,  astronomer named heinrich schwa be made an interesting claim ,  trobe had been watching the sun every day that it was visible for 17 years ,  looking for evidence of a new planet .
SENTENCE and he started keeping tracks of sunspots ,  mapping them ,  so he wouldn't confuse them ,  so he wouldn't confuse them with any potential new planet .
SENTENCE in the end ,  there was no planet ,  but there was evidence that the number of sunspots increased and decreased in a pattern ,  a pattern that began repeating after 1  years ,  and that was a huge breakthrough .
SENTENCE another astronomer named wolf kept track of the sun for an even longer period ,  4  years actually .
SENTENCE so wolf did 4  years of research ,  and trobe did 17 years of research .
SENTENCE i think there is a lesson there .
SENTENCE anyway ,  wolf went though all records from various observatories in europe and put together a history of sunspot observations going back about 1   years .
SENTENCE from this information ,  he was able to confirm the existence of a pattern ,  a repeating cycle but wolf detected an 11 year cycles ?
SENTENCE dose that sound familiar to anyone ?
SENTENCE no ?
SENTENCE well ,  geomagnetic activity ,  the natural variations in earth's magnetic field ,  it fluctuates in 11 year cycles .
SENTENCE well ,  we'll cover this later in this semester ,  but for now ,  well ,  scientists in the late 19th century were aware of geomagnetic cycles ,  so when they heard that the sunspots  cycle was also 11 years ,  well ,  they just had to find out what was going on .
SENTENCE suddenly ,  everyone was doing studies of the possible relationship between the sun and the earth .
SENTENCE did the sunspots cause the geomagnetic fields or did the geomagnetic fields cause the sunspots ?
SENTENCE or is there some other thing that caused both ?
SENTENCE and astronomers did eventually figure out what sunspots had to do with magnetic fields .
SENTENCE and the fact that sunspots are magnetic fields accounts for their dark appearance .
SENTENCE that's because magnetic fields reduce the pressure exerted on the gases inside of them ,  making the spots cooler than the rest of the sun's surface .
SENTENCE and since they are cooler ,  they are darker .
QUESTION which hypothesis regarding sunspots did galilee challenge
OPTION sunspots are shadows of planets trussing the sun 1
OPTION sunspots are cloud in the solar atmosphere 0
OPTION sunspots are evidence of the sun's rotation 0
OPTION sunspots are evidence of magnetic fields 0
