SENTENCE now ,  many people consider john watson to be the founder of behaviorism .
SENTENCE and like other behaviorists ,  he believed that psychologists should study only the behaviors they can observe and measure .
SENTENCE they're not interested in mental processes .
SENTENCE while a person could describe his thoughts ,  no one else can see or hear them to verify the accuracy of his report .
SENTENCE but one thing you can observe is muscular habits .
SENTENCE what watson did was to observe muscular habits because he viewed them as a manifestation of thinking .
SENTENCE one kind of habits that he studied are laryngeal habits .
SENTENCE watson thought laryngeal habits  .
SENTENCE you know ,  from larynx ,  in other words ,  related to the voice box  .
SENTENCE he thought those habits were an expression of thinking .
SENTENCE he argued that for very young children ,  thinking is really talking out loud to oneself because they talk out loud even if they're not trying to communicate with someone in particular .
SENTENCE as the individual matures ,  that overt talking to oneself becomes covert talking to oneself ,  but thinking still shows up as a laryngeal habit .
SENTENCE one of the bits of evidence that supports this is that when people are trying to solve a problem ,  they ,  um ,  typically have increased muscular activity in the throat region .
SENTENCE that is ,  if you put electrodes on the throat and measure muscle potential muscle activity you discover that when people are thinking ,  like if they're diligently trying to solve a problem ,  that there is muscular activity in the throat region .
SENTENCE so ,  watson made the argument that problem solving ,  or thinking ,  can be defined as a set of behaviors a set of responses and in this case the response he observed was the throat activity .
SENTENCE that's what he means when he calls it a laryngeal habit .
SENTENCE now ,  as i am thinking about what i am going to be saying ,  my muscles in my throat are responding .
SENTENCE so ,  thinking can be measured as muscle activity .
SENTENCE now ,  the motor theory  .
SENTENCE yes ?
SENTENCE professor blake ,  um ,  did he happen to look at people who sign ?
SENTENCE i mean deaf people ?
SENTENCE uh ,  he did indeed ,  um ,  and to jump ahead ,  what one finds in deaf individuals who use sign language when they're given problems of various kinds ,  they have muscular changes in their hands when they are trying to solve a problem  .
SENTENCE muscle changes in the hand ,  just like the muscular changes going on in the throat region for speaking individuals .
SENTENCE so ,  for watson ,  thinking is identical with the activity of muscles .
SENTENCE a related concept of thinking was developed by william james .
SENTENCE it's called ideomotor action .
SENTENCE ideomotor action is an activity that occurs without our noticing it ,  without our being aware of it .
SENTENCE i'll give you one simple example .
SENTENCE if you think of locations ,  there tends to be eye movement that occurs with your thinking about that location .
SENTENCE in particular ,  from where we're sitting ,  imagine that you're asked to think of our university library .
SENTENCE well ,  if you close your eyes and think of the library ,  and if you're sitting directly facing me ,  then according to this notion ,  your eyeballs will move slightly to the left ,  to your left ,   cause the library's in that general direction .
SENTENCE james and others said that this is an idea leading to a motor action ,  and that's why it's called  ideomotor action  an idea leads to motor activity .
SENTENCE if you wish to impress your friends and relatives ,  you can change this simple process into a magic trick .
SENTENCE ask people to do something such as i've just described  think of something on their left  think of something on their right .
SENTENCE you get them to think about two things on either side with their eyes closed ,  and you watch their eyes very carefully .
SENTENCE and if you do that ,  you'll discover that you can see rather clearly the eye movement that is ,  you can see the movement of the eyeballs .
SENTENCE now ,  then you say ,  think of either one and i'll tell which you're thinking of .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE well ,  watson makes the assumption that muscular activity is equivalent to thinking .
SENTENCE but given everything we've been talking about here ,  one has to ask  are there alternatives to this motor theory this claim that muscular activities are equivalent to thinking ?
SENTENCE is there anything else that might account for this change in muscular activity ,  other than saying that it is thinking ?
SENTENCE and the answer is clearly yes .
SENTENCE is there any way to answer the question definitively ?
SENTENCE i think the answer is no .
QUESTION why does the professor say about people who use sign language
OPTION it is not possible to study their thinking habits 0
OPTION they exhibit laryngeal habits 1
OPTION the muscles in their hands move when they solve problems 0
OPTION they do not exhibit ideomotor action 0
