SENTENCE for decades ,  psychologists have been looking at our ability to perform tasks while other things are going on ,  how we are able to keep from being distracted and what the conditions for good concentration are .
SENTENCE as long ago as 1982 ,  researchers came up with something called the cfq   the cognitive failures questionnaire .
SENTENCE this questionnaire asks people to rate themselves according to how often they get distracted in different situations ,  like um      forgetting to save a computer file because they had something else on their mind or missing a speed limit sign on the road .
SENTENCE john ?
SENTENCE i've lost my share of computer files ,  but not because i'm easily distracted .
SENTENCE i just forget to save them .
SENTENCE and that's part of the problem with th e cfq .
SENTENCE it doesn  't take other factors into account enough ,  like forgetfulness .
SENTENCE plus you really can  't say you are getting objective scientific results from a subjective questionnaire where people report on themselves .
SENTENCE so it  's no surprise that someone attempted to design an objective way to measure distraction .
SENTENCE i't  's a simple computer game designed by a psychologist named ,  nilli lavie .
SENTENCE in lavie  's game ,  people watch as the letters n and x appear and disappear in a certain area on the computer screen .
SENTENCE every time they see an n ,  they press one key ,  and every time they see an x they press another ,  except other letters also start appearing in the surrounding area of the screen with increasing frequency which creates a distraction and makes the task more difficult .
SENTENCE lavie observed that people  's reaction time slowed as these distractions increased .
SENTENCE well that's not too surprising ,  is it ?
SENTENCE no ,  it's not .
SENTENCE it's the next part of the experiment that was surprising .
SENTENCE when the difficulty really increased ,  when the screen filled up with letters ,  people got better at spotting the xs and ns  .
SENTENCE why do you think that happened ?
SENTENCE well ,  maybe when we are really concentrating ,  we just don't perceive irrelevant information  .
SENTENCE maybe we just don't take it in ,  you know ?
SENTENCE yes ,  and that's one of the hypotheses that was proposed ,  that the brain simply doesn't admit the unimportant information .
SENTENCE the second hypothesis is that ,  yes ,  we do perceive everything ,  but the brain categorizes the information ,  and whatever is not relevant to what we are concentrating on gets treated as low priority .
SENTENCE so lavie did another experiment ,  designed to look at this ability to concentrate better in the face of increased difficulty .
SENTENCE this time she used brain scanning equipment to monitor activity in a certain part of the brain ,  the area called v5 ,  which is part of the visual cortex ,  the part of our brains that processes visual stimuli .
SENTENCE v5 is the area of the visual cortex that's responsible for the sensation of movement .
SENTENCE once again ,  lavie gave people a computer based task to do .
SENTENCE they have to distinguish between words in upper and lower case letters or even harder ,  they had to count the number of syllables in different words .
SENTENCE this time the distraction was a moving star field in the background ,  you know ,  where it looks like you are moving through space ,  passing stars .
SENTENCE normally area of v5 would be stimulated as those moving stars are perceived and sure enough ,  lavie found that during the task area of v5 was active ,  so people were aware of the moving star field .
SENTENCE that means people were not blocking out the distraction .
SENTENCE so doesn't that mean that the first hypothesis you mentioned was wrong ,  the one that says we don't even perceive irrelevant information when we are concentrating ?
SENTENCE yes that's right ,  up to a point ,  but that's not all .
SENTENCE lavie also discovered that as she made the task more difficult  ,  v5 became less active ,  so that means that now people weren  't really noticing the star field at all .
SENTENCE that was quite a surprise and it proved that the second hypothesis   that we do perceive everything all the time but the brain categorizes distractions differently ,  well ,  that wasn't true either .
SENTENCE lavie thinks the solution lies in the brai 's ability to accept or ignore visual information .
SENTENCE she thinks its capacity is limited .
SENTENCE it's like a highway .
SENTENCE when there are too many cars ,  traffic is stopped .
SENTENCE no one can get on .
SENTENCE so when the brain is loaded to capacity ,  no new distractions can be perceived  .
SENTENCE now that may be the correct conclusion for visual distractions ,  but more research is needed to tell us how the brain deals with ,  say ,  the distractions of solving a math problem when we are hungry or when someone is singing in the next room .
QUESTION what did lavie's scans of subjects'svisual cortexes reveal
OPTION area v5 became less active when tasks became more difficult 1
OPTION the presence of the star field did not affect activity in area v5 0
OPTION area v5 became more active as more information appeared on the screen 0
OPTION stimulating area v5 interfered with subjects'sability to perceive motion 0
