SENTENCE as geologists ,  we examine layers of sediment on the earth 's surface to approximate the dates of past geologic time periods .
SENTENCE uh   sediment as you know ,  is material like sand  ,  gravel ,  fossil fragments that is transported by natural processes like wind  ,  water flow or the movement of glaciers .
SENTENCE so sediment is transported and then deposited and it forms layers on the earth's surface over time .
SENTENCE we examine these layers to learn about different geologic time periods including when they began and ended .
SENTENCE for example ,  from about 1 .
SENTENCE 8 million years ago to around 11 thousand years ago was the pleistocene epoch .
SENTENCE the pleistocene epoch was an ice age .
SENTENCE during this epoch ,  sediment was made by the kind of erosion and weathering that happens when the climate is colder ,  and part of those sediments are fossils of plants and animals that lived at that time .
SENTENCE the holocene epoch followed the pleistocene epoch when the earth  's climate warmed up around 11 thousand years ago .
SENTENCE the holocene epoch is characterized by different sediments ,  ones that form when the climate is warmer .
SENTENCE because the climate changed ,  the types of plants and animals changed also .
SENTENCE holocene sediments contain remnants of more recent plants and animals ,  so it's pretty easy to differentiate geologically between these two epochs .
SENTENCE now there is growing evidence that the presence of humans has altered the earth so much that a new epochc of geologic history has begun   the anthropocene epoch ,  a new human influenced epoch .
SENTENCE this idea that we've entered a new anthropocene epoch was first proposed in 2  2 .
SENTENCE the idea is that around the year 18   ce the human population became large enough ,  around a billion people ,  that its activities started altering the environment .
SENTENCE this was also the time of the industrial revolution ,  which brought a tremendous increase in the use of fossil fuels such as coal .
SENTENCE the exploitation of fossil fuels has brought planetwide developments  industrialization ,  construction ,  uh ,  mass transport .
SENTENCE and these developments have caused major changes like additional erosion of the earth's surface and deforestation .
SENTENCE also ,  things like the damming of rivers  ,  has caused increased sediment production ,  not to mention the addition of more carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere .
SENTENCE naturally all these changes show up in recent sediments .
SENTENCE and these sediments are quite different from pre year 18   sediment layers .
SENTENCE interestingly there's some speculation that humans started having a major impact on earth much earlier ,  about 8    years ago .
SENTENCE that's when agriculture was becoming widespread .
SENTENCE early farmers started clearing forests and livestock produced a lot of extra methane .
SENTENCE but i want to stress this is just a hypothesis .
SENTENCE the idea that early humans could have had such a major effect ,  well i'm just not sure we can compare it with the industrial age .
SENTENCE geologists in the far future will be able to examine the sediment being laid down today ,  whereas right now we can say that yes ,  human impact on the earth is clear  it'll be future researchers who have a better perspective and will be able to really draw a line between the holocene and the anthropocene epochs .
QUESTION why does the professor mention the pleistocene epoch
OPTION to explain how sediments change during an ice age 0
OPTION to give an example of a well defined geologic epoch 1
OPTION to describe how certain environmental conditions affect erosion rates 0
OPTION to describe the factors that influence the naming of geologic epochs 0
