SENTENCE good morning ,  ready to continue our review of prehistoric art ?
SENTENCE today ,  we will be covering the upper paleolithic period ,  which i am roughly defining as the period from 35 ,     to 8 ,     bc .
SENTENCE a lot of those cave drawings you have all seen come from this period .
SENTENCE but we are also be talking about portable works of art ,  things that could be carried around from place to place .
SENTENCE here is one example .
SENTENCE this sculpture is called the lady with the hood1  ,  and it was carved from ivory ,  probably a mammoth's tusk .
SENTENCE its age is a bit of a mystery .
SENTENCE according to one source ,  it dates from 22 ,     bc .
SENTENCE but other sources claimed it has been dated closer to 3  ,     bc .
SENTENCE amy ?
SENTENCE why don't we know the exact date when this head was made ?
SENTENCE that's a fair question .
SENTENCE we are talking about prehistory here .
SENTENCE so obviously the artists didn't put a signature or a date on anything they did .
SENTENCE so how do we know when this figure was carved ?
SENTENCE last semester i took an archaeology class and we spent a lot time on ,  studying ways to date things .
SENTENCE one technique i remember was using the location of an object to date it ,  like how deep it was buried .
SENTENCE that would be stratigraphy .
SENTENCE stratigraphy is used for dating portable art .
SENTENCE when archaeologists are digging at a site ,  they make very careful notes about which stratum strata  ,  which layer of earth they find things in .
SENTENCE and ,  you know ,  the general rule is that the oldest layers are at the lowest level .
SENTENCE but this only works if the site hasn't been touched ,  and the layers are intact .
SENTENCE a problem with this dating method is that an object could have been carried around ,  used for several generations before it was discarded .
SENTENCE so it might be much older than the layer or even the site where it was found .
SENTENCE the stratification technique gives us the minimum age of an object ,  which isn't necessarilly its true age .
SENTENCE tom ,  in your archaeology class ,  did you talk about radiocarbon dating ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  we did .
SENTENCE that had to do with chemical analysis ,  something to do with measuring the amount of radiocarbon that's left in organic stuff .
SENTENCE because we know how fast radiocarbon decays ,  we can figure out the age of the organic material .
SENTENCE the key word there is organic .
SENTENCE is art made of organic material ?
SENTENCE well ,  you said the lady with the hood was carved out of ivory .
SENTENCE that 's organic .
SENTENCE absolutely .
SENTENCE any other examples ?
SENTENCE well ,  when they did those cave drawings .
SENTENCE didn't they use ,  like chacoal or maybe colors ,  dyes made from plants ?
SENTENCE fortunately ,  they did ,  at least some of the time .
SENTENCE so it turns out that radiocarbon dating works for a lot of prehistoric art .
SENTENCE but again there's a problem .
SENTENCE this technique destroys what it analyzes ,  so you have to chip off bits of the object for testing .
SENTENCE obviously we are reluctant to do that in some cases .
SENTENCE and apart from that ,  there's another problems .
SENTENCE the date tells you the age of the material ,  say ,  a bone or a tree ,  the object is made from ,  but not the date when the artist actually created it .
SENTENCE so ,  with radiocarbon dating ,  we get the maximum possible age for the object ,  but it could be younger .
SENTENCE ok ,  let 's say our scientific analysis has produced an age range .
SENTENCE can we narrow itcould we look for similar styles or motives ?
SENTENCE you know ,  try to find things common to one time period .
SENTENCE we do that all the time .
SENTENCE and when we see similarities in pieces of art ,  we assume some connection in time or place .
SENTENCE but is it possible that we could be imposing our own values on that analysis ?
SENTENCE i am sorry .
SENTENCE i don't get your point .
SENTENCE well ,  we have all kinds of pre conceived ideas about how artistic styles develop .
SENTENCE for example ,  a lot of people think the presence of details demonstrates that the work was done by a more sophisticated artist .
SENTENCE while a lack of detail suggests a primitive style .
SENTENCE but trends in art in the last century or so certainly challenge that idea .
SENTENCE don't get me wrong though ,  analyzing the styles of prehistoric art can help dating them .
SENTENCE but we need to be careful with the idea that artistic development occurs in a straight line ,  from simple to complex representations .
SENTENCE what you are saying is ,  i mean ,  i get the feeling that this is like a legal process ,  like building a legal case ,  the more pieces of evidence we have ,  the closer we get to the truth .
SENTENCE great analogy .
SENTENCE and now you can see why we don't have an exact date for our sculpture ,  the lady with the hood .
QUESTION how does the woman summarize the professor's main point in the talk
OPTION by drawing a parallel with a process common to the legal field 1
OPTION by repeating a comment the professor made at the beginning of class 0
OPTION by referring to a study that supports the professor's theory 0
OPTION by comparing the professor's remarks with statements in the textbook 0
