SENTENCE all right ,  so now we've talked about folk legends and seen that their    one of their key features is there's usually some real history behind them .
SENTENCE they are often about real people ,  so you can identify with the characters ,  and that's what engages us in them .
SENTENCE the particular stories might not be true and some of the characters or events might be made up .
SENTENCE but there's still a sense that the story could have been true since it is about a real person .
SENTENCE that's distinct contrast from the other main branch of popular storytelling ,  which is folk tales .
SENTENCE folk tales are imaginative stories that    um    like folk legends ,  they have been passed down orally ,  from storyteller to storyteller for    since ancient times .
SENTENCE but with folk tales you don't ever really get the sense that the story might have been true .
SENTENCE they are purely imaginative and so quite revealing ,  i think anyway ,  about the culture and the connection between folk tales and culture ,  which we'll talk about .
SENTENCE but first let's go over the various types of folk tale and focus specifically on norwegian folk tales since they illustrate the variety pretty well .
SENTENCE there are in general three main types of norwegian folk tales .
SENTENCE one is animal stories ,  where animals are the main characters .
SENTENCE they can be wild animals or domestic ,  and a lot of times they can talk and behave like humans ,  but at the same time ,  they retain their animal characteristics too .
SENTENCE they tend to involve animals like bears ,  wolves and foxes .
SENTENCE the point of these stories ,  their ,  their internal objectives ,  so the speak ,  is usually to explain some feature of the animal ,  how it arose .
SENTENCE so there's one about a fox who fools a bear into going ice fishing with his tail .
SENTENCE when the bear puts his tail into the water through a hole in the ice ,  to try and catch a fish ,  the ice freezes around it ,  and he ends up pulling his tail off .
SENTENCE so that's why bears to this day have such short tails .
SENTENCE the second category of norwegian folk tale is the supernatural .
SENTENCE eh    stories about giants and dragons and trolls ,  and humans with supernatural powers or gifts ,  like invisibility cloaks .
SENTENCE or where people are turned into animals and back again into a person ,  those are called transformation stories .
SENTENCE there's a well known norwegian supernatural folk tale ,  a transformation story called east of the sun and west of the moon ,  which we'll read .
SENTENCE it involves a prince who is a white bear by night and a human by day .
SENTENCE and he lives in the castle that's east of the sun and west of the moon ,  which the heroine in the story has to try to find .
SENTENCE besides being a good example of a transformation story ,  this one also has a lot of the common things that tend to show up in folk tales .
SENTENCE you will find the standard opening ,   once upon a time       .
SENTENCE and it has stock characters like a prince ,  and a poor but beautiful peasant girl ,  she is the heroine i mentioned .
SENTENCE and    um    it has a very conventional form .
SENTENCE so no more than two characters are involved in any one scene .
SENTENCE and it has a happy ending .
SENTENCE and it's    the story is presented as though    well ,  even though a lot of the actions that occurred are pretty fantastic ,  so you'd never think of it as realistic .
SENTENCE the characters still act like    they resemble real people .
SENTENCE they are not real or even based on historical figures .
SENTENCE but you might have a supernatural story involving a king ,  and he'd act like you'd expect a norwegian king to act .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE the third main kind of folk tale is the comical story .
SENTENCE we'll say more later about these ,  but for now ,  just be aware of the category and that they can contain supernatural aspects ,  but they are usually more playful and amusing overall than supernatural stories .
SENTENCE now ,  as i said ,  traditionally ,  folk tales were just passed down orally .
SENTENCE each generation of storytellers had their own style of telling a story .
SENTENCE but    um    in norway ,  before the 19th century ,  folk tales were just for kids .
SENTENCE they weren't seen as worthy of analysis or academic attention .
SENTENCE but this changed when the romantic movement spread throughout europe in the mid 19th century .
SENTENCE romantics looked at folk tales as sort of a reflection of the soul of the people .
SENTENCE so there was something distinctly norwegian in folk tales from norway .
SENTENCE and there was renewed pride in the literature and art forms of individual countries .
SENTENCE as a result ,  the first collection of norwegian folk tales is published in 1852 .
SENTENCE and there have been many new editions published since then .
SENTENCE for the people of norway ,  these stories are now an important part of what it means to be norwegian .
QUESTION how is the story of the bear and the fox characteristic of norwegian animal stories
OPTION it explains the origin of a physical characteristic of an animal 1
OPTION it uses animal behavior to explain human characteristics 0
OPTION it shows how animals were domesticated by people 0
OPTION it contains episodes of animals changing into people 0
