SENTENCE hi ,  i   i am sorry to interrupt ,  could i ask you a few questions ?
SENTENCE sure ,  but if it is about you meal plan ,  you'll need to go to room 45 ,  just down the hall .
SENTENCE eh ,  no ,  i am ok with my meal plan .
SENTENCE i am actually here about the food in the student cafeteria .
SENTENCE oh ,  we do feed a lot of students ,  so we can't always honor individual requests .
SENTENCE i am sure you understand .
SENTENCE of course .
SENTENCE it is just that i am a little concerned ,  i mean ,  a lot of us are ,  that a lot of the food you serve isn't really that healthy .
SENTENCE like there are so many deep fried foods .
SENTENCE as a matter of fact ,  we recently changed the type of oil we use in our fryer  .
SENTENCE it is the healthiest available .
SENTENCE and would you believe that at least ten students have already complaint that their french fries and fried chicken don't taste as good since we switched ?
SENTENCE oh ,  i try not to eat too many fried foods anyway .
SENTENCE i am just aware that ,  eh  you see ,  i used to work in a natural food store .
SENTENCE they had all these literature4 advising people to eat fresh organic growing food .
SENTENCE working there really open my eyes .
SENTENCE did you come to the organic food festival we had to celebrate earth day ?
SENTENCE oh ,  sorry ,  i must have missed that .
SENTENCE we served only certified organic food ,  most of which was from local farms .
SENTENCE it is not something we can afford to do on a daily basis ,  and there aren't too many organic farms around here .
SENTENCE but sometime the produce we offer is organically grown .
SENTENCE it depends on the season and the prices of course .
SENTENCE that's good to know .
SENTENCE i like the fact that organic farms don't use chemical pesticides or anything that can pollute the soil or the water .
SENTENCE i do too .
SENTENCE but let me ask you this .
SENTENCE is it better to buy locally grown produce that is not certified as organic or is it better to get organically grown fruits and vegetables that must be trucked in from california ,  three thousand mile away .
SENTENCE what about fossile fuels burned by the trucks  engine .
SENTENCE plus the expense of shipping food across long distances .
SENTENCE and nutritionally speaking ,  an apple is an apple however it is grown .
SENTENCE i see your point .
SENTENCE it is not so clear cut .
SENTENCE why don't you visit our cafeteria's website ?
SENTENCE we list all our food suppliers .
SENTENCE you know ,  where we buy the food that we serve .
SENTENCE and the site also suggests ways to make your overall diet a healthy one .
SENTENCE you can also find some charts listing fat and calorie content for different types of seafood ,  meat and the other major food groups .
SENTENCE i didn't realize you thought about all these things so carefully ,  i just noticed the high calorie food in the cafeteria .
SENTENCE well ,  we have to give choices so everyone is satisfied .
SENTENCE but if you wish to pursue this further ,  i suggest that you talk to my boss .
SENTENCE that's ok ,  seems like you are doing what you can .
QUESTION according to the woman , what information can be found on the cafeteria's web site
OPTION requirements for food to be certified as organic 0
OPTION information on where the cafeteria food comes from 1
OPTION a list of the food choices offered to students for each meal 0
OPTION the nutritional content of specific foods 1
