SENTENCE almost all animals have some way of regulating their body temperature  otherwise they wouldn't survive extreme hot or cold conditions   sweating ,  panting ,  swimming to cooler or warmer water  ducking into somewhere cool like a burrow or a hole under a rock  these are just a few .
SENTENCE and that spot is colder or warmer than the surrounding environment ,  because it's a microclimate .
SENTENCE a microclimate is a group of climate conditions that affect a localized area ,  weather features like temperature ,  wind ,  moisture and so on .
SENTENCE and when i say localized ,  i mean really localized ,  because microclimates can be ,  as the name suggests ,  pretty small ,  even less than a square meter .
SENTENCE and microclimates are affected by huge number of other variables .
SENTENCE obviously weather conditions in the surrounding area are a factor .
SENTENCE but other aspects of the location like ,  um  the elevation of the land ,  the plant life nearby ,  and so on ,  have a substantial effect on microclimates .
SENTENCE and of course the human development in the area ,  um ,  a road will affect a nearby microclimate .
SENTENCE it's also interesting to note that microclimates that are near each other can have very different conditions .
SENTENCE in the forest for example ,  there can be a number of very different microclimates close to each other ,  because of all the variables i just mentioned .
SENTENCE so how does a hole in the ground ,  a burrow ,  stay cool in a hot climate ?
SENTENCE well ,  since cold air sinks ,  and these spots are shaded ,  they are usually much cooler than the surrounding area .
SENTENCE and these spots are so important because many animals rely on microclimates to regulate their body temperature .
SENTENCE um ,  for instance ,  there is a species of squirrel ,  in the western part of the united states that can get really hot when they are out foraging for food .
SENTENCE so they need a way to cool down .
SENTENCE so what do they do ?
SENTENCE they go back to their own burrow .
SENTENCE once they get there ,  their body temperatures decrease very ,  very quickly .
SENTENCE the trip to the burrow prevents the squirrel from getting too hot .
SENTENCE but squirrels are mammals ,  right ?
SENTENCE i thought mammals regulated their temperaturemammals do have the ability to regulate their body temperature ,  but not all can do it to the same degree ,  or even the same way .
SENTENCE like when you walk outside on a hot day ,  you perspire ,  and your body cools itself down ,  a classic example of how a mammal regulates its own body temperature .
SENTENCE but one challenge that squirrels face ,  well many small mammals do ,  is that because of their size ,  sweating would make them lose too much moisture .
SENTENCE they dehydrate .
SENTENCE but on the other hand ,  their small size allows them to fit into very tiny spaces .
SENTENCE so for small mammals ,  microclimates can make a big difference .
SENTENCE they rely on microclimates for survival .
SENTENCE so cold blooded animals ,  like reptiles ,  they can't control their own body temperature ,  so i can imagine the effect a microclimate would have on them .
SENTENCE yes ,  many reptiles and insects rely on microclimates to control their body temperature .
SENTENCE a lot of reptiles use burrows or stay under rocks to cool down .
SENTENCE of course with reptiles ,  it's a balancing act .
SENTENCE staying in the heat for too long can lead to problems ,  but staying in the cold can do the same .
SENTENCE so reptiles have to be really precise about where they spend their time ,  even how they position their bodies .
SENTENCE and when i say they're precise ,  i mean it    some snakes will search out a place under rocks of a specific thickness ,  because too thin a rock doesn't keep them cool enough ,  and too thick a rock will cause them to get too cold .
SENTENCE that level of precision is critical to the snake for maintaining its body temperature .
SENTENCE and even microscopic organisms rely on microclimates for survival .
SENTENCE think about this ,  decomposing leaves create heat that warms the soil  the warm soil in turn affects the growth ,  the conditions of organisms there .
SENTENCE and those organisms then affect the rate of decomposition of the leaves .
SENTENCE so a microclimate can be something so small and so easily disturbed that even a tiny change can have a big impact .
SENTENCE if someone on a hike knocks a couple of rocks over ,  they could be unwittingly destroying a microclimate that an animal or organism relies on .
QUESTION what point does the professor make when she mentions squirrels
OPTION studying squirrels has helped biologists identify different microclimates 0
OPTION mammals have more than one way of regulating their body temperature 1
OPTION smaller animals have more success than larger animals in adapting to different microclimates 0
OPTION squirrels do not rely on microclimates as much as other mammals do 0
