SENTENCE probably back in some previous biology course you learned that snakes evolved from lizards ,  and that the first snakes weren't venomous and then along came more advanced snakes ,  the venomous snakes .
SENTENCE ok ,  venomous snakes are the ones that secrete poisonous substances or venom ,  like the snakes of the viper family or cobras .
SENTENCE then there is non venomous snakes like constrictors and pythons .
SENTENCE another family of snakes ,  the colubrids ,  don't really fit neatly into either category though .
SENTENCE colubrids ,  and you probably learned this too ,  although they are often classified as venomous snakes ,  they are actually generally non venomous .
SENTENCE they are classified as venomous snakes because they resemble them ,  their advanced features more than the other non venomous snakes .
SENTENCE now ,  what if i told you that there is a good chance that most everything i just said is wrong ?
SENTENCE well ,  everything except the part about snakes evolving from lizards .
SENTENCE see ,  the basic theory about snake evolution has been challenged by a recent study that revealed a whole new understanding of evolutionary relationship for reptiles ,  you know ,  which reptiles descended from which ancestors .
SENTENCE the researchers study the proteins in the venom genes of various species of colubrids .
SENTENCE emm   snake venom is a mixture of proteins ,  some toxic ,  poisonous ,  and some not .
SENTENCE by analyzing the dna ,  the genetic material of the proteins ,  the researchers could focus on the toxic genes and use them to trace the evolution of snake venom ,  and from this ,  the evolution of snakes .
SENTENCE traditionally ,  to understanding evolutionary relationships ,  we looked at various easily observed physical characteristics of animals ,  their skeleton ,  the size of their brain ,  and   and then classify them based on similarities and differences .
SENTENCE the problem with this method is that characteristics that appear similar may actually have developed in quite different ways .
SENTENCE for example ,  some venoms are chemical based ,  and others are bacteria based ,  so they clearly had to have developed along different routes and may not be as closely related as we thought .
SENTENCE now ,  and not everyone will agree about this .
SENTENCE the classification based on dna seems to be much more reliable .
SENTENCE ok ,  back to the research .
SENTENCE the researchers found that venom evolved before snakes even existed ,  about a hundred million years before .
SENTENCE now ,  a couple of venomous lizards were included in this study .
SENTENCE and the researchers found some of the same dna in their venom as in the snakes  venom .
SENTENCE this suggested that the common ancestor of all snakes was actually venomous lizard ,  which means that actually ,  according to this research ,  anyway ,  in terms of the snakes  ancestry ,  there is no such thing as a non venomous snake ,  not even colubrids .
SENTENCE what separates colubrids from other snakes we have been classifying is venomous ,  is not the lack of venom ,  but the lack of an effective way to deliver the venom into its prey .
SENTENCE in most venomous snakes ,  like vipers and cobras ,  the venom is used to catch and inmoblize the prey  but in colubrids ,  venom drips onto the prey only after the prey is in the snake's mouth .
SENTENCE so for colubrids ,  the venom must serve some other purpose ,  maybe linked to digesting prey .
SENTENCE as the different families of venomous snakes evolved ,  the teeth moved forward ,  becoming larger ,  and the venom becoming stronger ,  so the evolution of the obvious venomous snakes ,  like cobras and vipers ,  is about the evolution of an efficient delivery system ,  not so much the evolution of the venom itself .
SENTENCE so ,  if there are no truly non venomous snakes ,  were the so called non venomous snakes ,  like constrictors and pythons ,  were they venomous at some point in their evolution ?
SENTENCE well ,  that's not clear at this point .
SENTENCE constrictors have evolved to kill their prey by crushing ,  but perhaps they once were venomous ,  and then at some point their venom producing apparatus4 wasn't needed anymore ,  so it gradually disappeared .
SENTENCE there's one species of snake ,  the brown tree snake ,  that uses both constriction and venom ,  depending on its prey .
SENTENCE so ,  well ,  it is possible .
SENTENCE so ,  we have these new concepts of snakes  evolution and a new dna database ,  all these information on the genetic makeup of snake venom .
SENTENCE and what we have learned from this has led researchers to believe that venom proteins may have some exciting applications in the field of medical research .
SENTENCE you see ,  venom alters biological functions in the same way certain drugs do ,  and the big benefit of drugs made from snakes venom would be that they target only certain cells ,  so maybe that'll create fewer side effects .
SENTENCE now ,  it sounds far fetched5 ,  venom is the basis for human drugs .
SENTENCE so far ,  only one protein has been targeted for study as a potential drug ,  but who knows ,  maybe someday .
QUESTION why does the professor review information about the classification of snakes that students probably learned in previous courses
OPTION to determine whether the students have enrolled in the appropriate course 0
OPTION to stress the usefulness of the classification system for students 0
OPTION to present assumptions that have recently been challenged 1
OPTION to give an example of a method that she will explain in greater detail 0
