SENTENCE good afternoon ,  alex ,  can i help you with something ?
SENTENCE well ,  i wanted to talk with you about the research project you assigned today .
SENTENCE i um i hope you could clarify a few things for me .
SENTENCE ok ,  all we have to do is do two observations and take notes on them ,  right ?
SENTENCE ur ,  that's a start ,  but you'll need to do some research ,  too .
SENTENCE then you will write a paper that is not so much about the observations ,  but a synthesis of what you have observed and read .
SENTENCE ok  .
SENTENCE and what about the children i am supposed to observe ?
SENTENCE not children ,  a single child observed twice .
SENTENCE oh ok ,  so i should choose a child with the permission of the child's parent of course and then observe that child a couple of times and take good notes ,  then ?
SENTENCE actually after your first observation ,  you'll go back and look through your textbook or go to a library and find a few sources concerning the stage of development this particular child is in .
SENTENCE and then ,  with that knowledge ,  you will make a second observation of the same child to see if the expected developmental behaviors are exhibited .
SENTENCE can you give me an example ?
SENTENCE well ,  um ,  if you observed a four year old child ,  for example ,  my daughter is 4 years old  you might read up on piaget's stages of cognitive development we covered those in class .
SENTENCE uh ,  most likely ,  what stage would a child of that age be in ?
SENTENCE um  the pre operational stage ?
SENTENCE exactly ,  if that's the case ,  her language use would be maturing and her memory and imagination would be developed .
SENTENCE so she might play pretend like she can pretend when driving her toy car across a couch that the couch is actually a bridge or something .
SENTENCE that is right .
SENTENCE in addition ,  her thinking would be primarily egocentric .
SENTENCE so she would be thinking mostly about herself and her own needs ,  and might not be able to see things from anyone else's perspective ?
SENTENCE but what if she doesn t ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  what if she doesn't demonstrate those behaviors ?
SENTENCE that's fine  you'll note that in your paper .
SENTENCE see ,  your paper should compare what is expected of children at certain stages of development with what you actually observed .
SENTENCE ok ,  i have one more question now .
SENTENCE where can i find a child to observe ?
SENTENCE um ,  i suggest you contact the education department secretary .
SENTENCE she has a list of contacts at various schools and with certain families who are somehow connected to the university .
SENTENCE sometimes they are willing to help out students with projects like yours .
SENTENCE ok ,  i'll stop by the education department office this afternoon .
SENTENCE and if you have any trouble or any more questions ,  feel free to come by during my office hours .
QUESTION why does the student go to see the professor
OPTION to report on the research he has done 0
OPTION to ask for permission to observe a class 0
OPTION to get help understanding an assignment 1
OPTION to ask about a question on a recent test 0
