SENTENCE professor  so we've been discussing 16th century native american life ,  and today we're going to focus on the iroquois and huron peoples .
SENTENCE they lived in the northeastern great lakes region of north america .
SENTENCE now ,  back then ,  their lifes depended on the natural resources of the forests ,  especially the birch tree .
SENTENCE the birch tree can grow in many different types of soils and is prevalent in that area .
SENTENCE now can anyone here describe a birch tree ?
SENTENCE student they are tall and white ,  the bark ,  i mean .
SENTENCE professor  yes .
SENTENCE the birch tree has white bark ,  and this tough protective outer layer of the tree ,  this white bark ,  is waterproof .
SENTENCE and this waterproof quality of the bark ,  it made it useful for making things like cooking containers ,  a variety of utensils .
SENTENCE and if you peel birch bark in the winter ,  we call it  the winter bark  ,  another layer ,  a tougher inner layer of the tree adheres to the bark ,  producing a stronger material .
SENTENCE so the winter bark was used for larger utensils and containers .
SENTENCE student i know people make utensils out of wood ,  but utensils out of tree bark ?
SENTENCE professor  well ,  birch bark is pliable and very easy to bend .
SENTENCE the native americans would cut the bark and fold it into any shape they needed ,  then secure it with cords until it dried .
SENTENCE they could fold the bark into many shapes .
SENTENCE student so if they cooked in bowls made of birch bark ,  wouldn't that make the food taste funny ?
SENTENCE professor  oh ,  that's one of the great things about birch bark .
SENTENCE the taste of the birch tree doesn't get transferred to the food .
SENTENCE so it was perfect for cooking containers .
SENTENCE but the most important use of the bark ,  by far ,  was the canoe .
SENTENCE since the northeast region of north american is interconnected by many streams and waterways ,  water transportation by vessels like a canoe was most essential .
SENTENCE the paths through the woods were often overgrown ,  so water travel was much faster .
SENTENCE and here's what the native americans did .
SENTENCE they would peel large sheets of bark from the tree to form lightweight yet sturdy canoes .
SENTENCE the bark was stretched over frames made from tree branches ,  stitched together and sealed with resin .
SENTENCE you know that sticky liquid that comes out of the tree ?
SENTENCE and when it dries ,  it's watertight .
SENTENCE one great thing about these birch bark canoes was ,  uh ,  they could carry a large amount of cargo .
SENTENCE for example ,  a canoe weighing about 5  pounds could carry up to nine people and 25  pounds of cargo .
SENTENCE student wow !
SENTENCE but how far could they travel that way ?
SENTENCE professor  well like i said ,  the northeastern region is interconnected by rivers and streams and the ocean at the coast .
SENTENCE the canoes allow them to travel over a vast area that today would take a few hours to fly over .
SENTENCE you see ,  the native americans made canoes of all types ,  for travel on small streams or on large open ocean waters .
SENTENCE for small streams ,  they made narrow ,  maneuverable boats ,  while ,  while larger canoes were needed for the ocean .
SENTENCE they could travel throughout the area only occasionally having to portage ,  to carry the canoe over a land short distance to another nearby stream .
SENTENCE and since the canoes were so light ,  this wasn't a difficult task .
SENTENCE now how do you think this affected their lives ?
SENTENCE student well if they could travel so easily over such a large area ,  they could trade with people from other areas which i guess would lead them to form alliances ?
SENTENCE professor  exactly .
SENTENCE having an efficient means of transportation ,  well ,  that helps the iroquois to form a federation linked by natural waterways .
SENTENCE and this federation expanded from what is now southern canada all the way south to the dalever river .
SENTENCE and this efficiency of the birch bark canoe also made an impression on newcomers to the area .
SENTENCE french traders in the 17th century modeled their  well they adopted the design of the iroquois birch bark canoes ,  and they found they could travel great distances more than 15 kilometers a month .
SENTENCE now besides the bark ,  native americans also used the wood of the birch tree .
SENTENCE the young trees were used as supports for lodgings ,  with the waterproof bark used as roofing .
SENTENCE branches were folded into snowshoes .
SENTENCE and the native american people were all adept at running very fast over the snow in these birch branch snowshoes ,  which if you ever tried walking in snowshoes you know it wasn't easy .
QUESTION what is the lecture mainly about
OPTION different kinds of trees used for building canoes 0
OPTION various methods of native american transportation 0
OPTION the value of birth trees to some native american groups 1
OPTION the trading of birth wood products by europeans in north america 0
