SENTENCE as we've discussed ,  earth's crust is made up of large plates that rest on a mantle of molten rock .
SENTENCE these plates uh now these tectonic plates support the continents and oceans .
SENTENCE over time ,  the tectonic plates move and shift ,  which moves the continents and the ocean floors too .
SENTENCE once it was understood how these plates move ,  it was possible to determine past movements of earth's continents and how these slow movements have reshaped earth's features at different times .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE well ,   as studying the movements of the plates can tell us about the location of the continents in the past ,  it can conceivably tell us about their location in the future too ,  right ?
SENTENCE so ,  in recent years ,  some geologists have used plate tectonic theory to make what they call geopredictions .
SENTENCE geopredictions are guesses about what earth's surface might look like millions of years from now .
SENTENCE so ,  we know how certain continents are currently moving .
SENTENCE for example ,  the continents of africa has been creeping north toward europe .
SENTENCE and australia has been making its way north too ,  toward asia .
SENTENCE does anyone know what's happening to the americas ?
SENTENCE i i think we've talked about that before .
SENTENCE lisa ?
SENTENCE they are moving westward ,  away from europe and africa .
SENTENCE right ?
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE and what makes us think that ?
SENTENCE the atlantic oceanfloor is spreading and getting wider ,  so there is more ocean between the americas and europe and africa .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE and why is it spreading ?
SENTENCE well ,  the seafloor is spilt .
SENTENCE there is a ridge ,  a mountain range that runs north and south there .
SENTENCE and the rock material flows up from earth's interior here ,  at the split ,  which forces the two sides of the ocean floor to spread apart ,  to make room for the new rock material .
SENTENCE good .
SENTENCE and that means ,  over the short term uh  and by short term i mean 5  million years ,  that's a blink of the eye in geological time .
SENTENCE um over the short term ,  we can predict that the americas will continue to move westward ,  farther away from europe ,  while africa and australia will continue to move northward .
SENTENCE but what about over the long term ?
SENTENCE say 25  million years or more .
SENTENCE well ,  over that length of time ,  forecasts become more uncertain .
SENTENCE but lots of geologists predict that eventually all the continents ,  including antarctica ,  will merge and become one giant land mass ,  a super continent ,  one researchers callingpangaea ultima ,  which more or less means the last super continent .
SENTENCE the above text is a transcript of this lecture prepared by lady bird .
SENTENCE now ,  how that might happen is open to some debate .
SENTENCE some geologists believe that the americas will continue to move westward and eventually merge with east asia .
SENTENCE this hypothesis is based on the direction the americas are moving in now .
SENTENCE but others hypothesize that a new super continent will form in a different way .
SENTENCE they think that a new subduction zone will might occur at the western edge of the atlantic ocean .
SENTENCE paul ,  can you remind us what a subduction zone is ?
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE um basically ,  a subduction zone is where two tectonic plates collide .
SENTENCE so if an ocean floor tectonic plate meets the edge of a continent and they push against each other ,  the heavier one sinks down and goes under the other one .
SENTENCE so the um the oceanic plate is made of denser and heavier rock ,  so it begins to sink down under the continental plate and into the mantle .
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE so the ocean floor would kind of slide under the edge of the continent .
SENTENCE and once the ocean plate begins to sink ,  it would be affected by another force   slab pull .
SENTENCE slab pull happens at the subduction zone .
SENTENCE so to continue our example  as the ocean floor plate begins to sink down into the mantle ,  it would drag or pull the entire plate along with it .
SENTENCE so more and more of this plate ,  the ocean floor ,  would go down under the continent into the mantle .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE so ,  as i said ,  currently the atlantic ocean floor is spreading ,  getting wider ,  but some researchers speculate that eventually a subduction zone will occur where the oceanic plate meets the continental plate of the americas .
SENTENCE if that happens ,  slab pull could draw the oceanic crust under the continent ,  actually causing the americas to move eastward toward europe and the ocean floor to get smaller .
SENTENCE that is ,  the atlantic ocean would start to close up ,  narrowing the distance between the eastern edge of the americas and europe and africa .
SENTENCE so they form a single super continent .
QUESTION what long term geopredictions do many geologists make
OPTION continents will become smaller than they are now 0
OPTION subduction will cause one continent to sink under an ocean 0
OPTION north and south america will move away from each other 0
OPTION the current continents will eventually join together 1
