SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE we have been talking about the art and architecture of the italian renaissance ,  from around a .
SENTENCE 'd .
SENTENCE 14   to around a .
SENTENCE 'd .
SENTENCE 16   .
SENTENCE last class ,  we had a look at some of the magnificent palaces and villas built during this time period .
SENTENCE and just as class was ending ,  someone asked about the gardens associated with these palaces and villas .
SENTENCE and so i'd like to say a few things about them before we move on .
SENTENCE now ,  when i say gardens ,  i don't mean vegetable gardens or simple flower gardens .
SENTENCE these were lavishly constructed ,  finely detailed gardens that covered hundreds of acres ,  with exotic plants and ornamental statues .
SENTENCE and they were just as much a symbol of their owners  social position as their palaces and villas were .
SENTENCE again ,  what was the inspiration for the renaissance ?
SENTENCE rebecca .
SENTENCE classical art and architecture of the ancient greeks and romans .
SENTENCE that's right .
SENTENCE as we've said before ,  the main point of the renaissance was to revive the genius of the ancient greeks and romans ,  which is why designers of renaissance gardens designed them as the ancient romans would have designed them ,  or at least as they imagined the ancient romans would have designed them .
SENTENCE how did they know what ancient roman gardens look like ?
SENTENCE well ,  they didn't have any pictures .
SENTENCE but they did have some very detailed descriptions of ancient roman villas and their gardens that had been written by famous roman authors who lived during the height of the roman empire .
SENTENCE and at least three of those authors ,  one was a scholar ,  one was a poet ,  and one was lawyer ,  were very authoritative ,  very reliable sources .
SENTENCE ah and interestingly enough ,  there was another source that didn't describe classical gardens but still became a great influence on renaissance gardens .
SENTENCE it was also written back during the height of the roman empire by a mathematician known as hero of alexandria .
SENTENCE hero was a greek .
SENTENCE but he lived in alexandria ,  egypt ,  which was at the time part of the roman empire .
SENTENCE hero compiled descriptions and sketches of seventy some clever little mechanical devices ,  most of which utilized compressed air to cause water ,  or in some cases wine ,  to flow from one place to another ,  or sometimes to squirt or to make some kind of noise .
SENTENCE yes ?
SENTENCE john ?
SENTENCE could you give an example ?
SENTENCE well ,  one of the devices was a sacrificial vessel that was obviously designed for a temple ,  not for a garden .
SENTENCE anyway ,  if you drop money into this vessel ,  water would flow out of it .
SENTENCE well ,  creative minds in the renaissance realized that this little device could be nicely repurposed as a nifty little fountain .
SENTENCE designers of renaissance gardens loved this sort of thing .
SENTENCE they loved to incorporate novelties and tricks ,  things to amuse and impress guests .
SENTENCE and that was the purpose ?
SENTENCE to impress people ?
SENTENCE sure .
SENTENCE as a nobleman or wealthy landowner ,  one purpose of having a fabulous villa with a fantastic garden was to impress people .
SENTENCE it was a way of proving your social position .
SENTENCE well ok .
SENTENCE you also mentioned tricks .
SENTENCE well ,  for example ,  some gardens had plaster or marble birds that sang when water flowed through them .
SENTENCE some fountains were designed to squirt people with water .
SENTENCE and these things were popular ?
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE they may have been the most popular features of the gardens .
SENTENCE i mean ,  flowers and statues can be nice to look at ,  but these things were a lot more fun .
SENTENCE and the more clever the device is ,  the more famous the garden and the greater prestige the landowner enjoyed .
SENTENCE yes ?
SENTENCE rebecca .
SENTENCE what about mazes ?
SENTENCE i read that they were a major part of the renaissance gardens .
SENTENCE oh ,  yes .
SENTENCE they certainly were !
SENTENCE mazes or labyrinths ,  as they're also called ,  were very common in renaissance gardens .
SENTENCE how that came to be though is a bit of a mystery .
SENTENCE mazes have a long history going back to the ancient egyptians ,  but they started appearing in gardens only during the renaissance ,  or perhaps just a little bit prior to that .
SENTENCE according to one source ,  what happened was  in the late 14 's ,  a highly respected expert published a book on architecture .
SENTENCE and readers somehow mistakenly inferred from that book that ancient romans had mazes in their gardens .
SENTENCE so then designers of renaissance gardens thinking they were following in the footsteps of the ancient romans well guess what they did .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about mazes
OPTION they were not part of ancient roman gardens 1
OPTION they were not common in renaissance gardens 0
OPTION they often incorporated hidden water tricks 0
OPTION they were the most creative aspect of renaissance gardens 0
