SENTENCE so ,  continuing our discussion of ecological systems    whole systems .
SENTENCE the main thing to keep in mind here is the interrelationships .
SENTENCE the species in a system uh  .
SENTENCE and even the landscape itself ,  they are interdependent .
SENTENCE let's take what you read for this week and see if we can apply this interdependence idea .
SENTENCE mike ?
SENTENCE well ,  um  ,  how about beavers    ecosystems with beavers and waterways .
SENTENCE good ,  good ,  go on .
SENTENCE like ,  well ,  you can see how it's so important ,   cause if you go back before european settled in north america ,  like before the 16 's ,  back when native americans were the only people living here ,  well ,  back then there were a lot of beavers ,  but later on ,  after europeans ok ,  wait ,  i see where you are heading with this ,  but before we go into how european settlement affected the ecosystem ,  tell me this    what kind of environment do beavers live in ?
SENTENCE think about what it was like before the europeans settlers came ,  we'll come back to where you were headed .
SENTENCE ok ,  well ,  beavers live near streams and rivers and they block up the streams and rivers with like logs and sticks and mud .
SENTENCE you know ,  they build dams that really slow down the flow of the stream .
SENTENCE so then the water backs up ,  and creates like a pond that floods the nearby land .
SENTENCE and that creates wetlands .
SENTENCE ok ,  tell me more .
SENTENCE well with wetlands ,  it's like there is more standing water ,  more still water around ,  and that water is a lot cleaner than swiftly flowing water ,  because the dirt and sediment and stuff has a chance to sink to the bottom .
SENTENCE more important for our discussion ,  wetland areas support a lot more varieties of life than swiftly flowing water .
SENTENCE for example ,  there are more varieties of fish ,  or insects ,  lots of frog spices ,  and then species that rely on those species start to live near the wetlands too .
SENTENCE yes ,  like birds and mammals that eat the fish and insects ,  and you get trees and plants that begin to grow near the standing water that can't grow near the running water .
SENTENCE oh ,  and there's something about wetlands and groundwater too .
SENTENCE professor  ok ,  good .
SENTENCE wetlands have a big effect on groundwater ,  the amount of water below the surface of the land .
SENTENCE think of wetlands as ,  umm ,  like a giant sponge ,  the earth soaks up a lot of this water that's continually flooding the surface ,  which increases the amount of water below .
SENTENCE so where there're wetlands ,  you get a lot of groundwater ,  and groundwater happens to be a big source of our own drinking water today .
SENTENCE alright  so ,  back to the beavers ,  what if the beavers weren't there ?
SENTENCE you just have a regular running stream ,  because there is no dam ,  so the ecosystem would be completely different ,  there would be fewer wetlands .
SENTENCE exactly ,  so ,  now let's go back to where you were headed before ,  mike .
SENTENCE you mentioned a change that occurred after europeans came to north america .
SENTENCE yeah ,  well ,  there used to be beavers all over the place ,  something like 2   million beavers ,  just in the continental united states .
SENTENCE but when europeans came ,  they started hunting the beavers for their fur ,  because beaver fur is really warm ,  and it was really popular for making hats in europe .
SENTENCE so the beavers were hunted a lot ,  overhunted ,  they are almost extinct by the 18 's ,  so  that meant fewer wetlands ,  less standing water .
SENTENCE and what does that mean for the ecosystem ?
SENTENCE kate ?
SENTENCE well if there is less standing water ,  then the ecosystem can't support as many species ,  because a lot of insects and fish and frogs can't live in running water ,  and then the birds and animals that eat them ,  lose their food supply .
SENTENCE precisely ,  so the beaver in this ecosystem is what we call a keystone species .
SENTENCE the term keystone kind of explains itself .
SENTENCE in architecture ,  a keystone in an archway or doorway is the stone that holds the whole thing together ,  and keeps it from collapsing .
SENTENCE well ,  that's what a keystone species does in an ecosystem .
SENTENCE it's the crucial species that keeps the system going .
SENTENCE now ,  beaver populations are on the rise again ,  but there is something to think about .
SENTENCE consider humans as part of these ecosystems ,  you've probably heard about water shortages or restrictions on how much water you can use ,  especially in the summer time ,  in recent years .
SENTENCE and remember what i said about groundwater  imagine if we still have all those beavers around ,  all those wetlands .
SENTENCE what would our water supply be like then ?
QUESTION what does the professor say about still water and swiftly flowing water
OPTION beavers cannot adapt to living near swiftly flowing water 0
OPTION still water and swiftly flowing water support similar ecosystems 0
OPTION still water supports more life than swiftly flowing water 1
OPTION wetland areas include large quantities of swiftly flowing water 0
