SENTENCE so how was the field trip to the nature center yesterday ?
SENTENCE you are in that biology class ,  aren't you ?
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE i am .
SENTENCE the trip was amazing .
SENTENCE we took a hike through the woods and our guide pointed out all kinds of animal and plant species .
SENTENCE she could identify every bird ,  every tree i have to tell you .
SENTENCE i was very impressed with her knowledge .
SENTENCE i am glad to hear you enjoyed the trip .
SENTENCE well ,  i am interested in getting an advanced degree in forestry after i graduate from here .
SENTENCE so i love all this stuff .
SENTENCE and actually ,  yesterday's trip got me thinking about my research paper for your class .
SENTENCE wonderful !
SENTENCE tell me more .
SENTENCE so our guide was talking about how the human need for resources had shaped the environment .
SENTENCE and i just assumed that the human impact on the environment was always destructive .
SENTENCE ah but that's not necessarily true .
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE that's what she was telling us .
SENTENCE she said there's archaeological evidence that some prehistoric cultures relied heavily on dead wood for fuel ,  or um just cut off some of the branches of trees instead of killing the whole tree .
SENTENCE it is so funny you mentioned that .
SENTENCE i was just reading an article about an archaeological site in turkey where scientists found evidence that ancient people had been harvesting the branches from pistachio and almond trees .
SENTENCE the above text is a transcript of this conversation prepared by lady bird  qq519626928  .
SENTENCE of course ,  when you prune these trees ,  cutting off just the branches like that ,  you are actually encouraging more growth !
SENTENCE and you end up with a bigger crop of nuts .
SENTENCE so this was a pretty smart strategy for collecting wood .
SENTENCE see ,  that's what i'd like to write about .
SENTENCE i want to look at ancient methods of wood harvesting that didn't result in the destruction of the whole forest .
SENTENCE hmm so you want to write your entire paper on wood harvesting ?
SENTENCE is is that a problem ?
SENTENCE well ,  it's certainly a timely topic .
SENTENCE researchers are investigating this now .
SENTENCE uh it's just that well i am not sure how it fits with the assignment .
SENTENCE remember you are supposed to be focusing on a particular culture or region .
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE um actually i was planning on writing about the wood harvesting practices of the people who lived here .
SENTENCE you know ,  the native americans who were living in this area and what that might tell us about how they lived .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE well ,  that's a possibility .
SENTENCE i just want to make sure you can find enough information on that topic to write a well developed paper .
SENTENCE i'd like you to get started on your research right away .
SENTENCE maybe even talk to that nature guide and show me what information you can find .
SENTENCE then we can talk about whether or not your topic will work .
QUESTION according to the professor, what did researchers find at an archaeological site in turkey
OPTION remains of pistachios and almonds in ancient vessels 0
OPTION tools indicating that there was farming in the region 0
OPTION evidence that people cut down trees for use as fuel 0
OPTION evidence that people harvested branches from trees 1
