SENTENCE ok ,  so last time ,  we covered the dances honey bees do to indicate where food can be found and the calls and songs of different types of birds .
SENTENCE today ,  i'd like to look at some communication systems found in mammals ,  particularly in primates ,  such as orangutans ,  chimpanzees ,  gorillas   yes ,  thomas ?
SENTENCE excuse me ,   .
SENTENCE but when you talk about gorilla language ,  do you mean like ,  those experiments where humans taught them sign language or a language like .
SENTENCE ok ,  wait just a minute .
SENTENCE now ,  who in this class heard me use the word  language  ?
SENTENCE no one i hope .
SENTENCE what we're talking about here ,  are systems of communication ,  all right ?
SENTENCE oh ,  sorry ,  communication ,  right .
SENTENCE but could you maybe ,  like ,  clarify what the difference is ?
SENTENCE of course ,  that's a fair question .
SENTENCE ok ,  well ,  to start with ,  let's make it clear that language is a type of communication ,  not the other way around .
SENTENCE ok ,  so all communication systems ,  language included ,  have certain features in common .
SENTENCE for example ,  the signals used to communicate from the bee's dance movements ,  to the word and sentences found in human languages .
SENTENCE all these signals convey meaning .
SENTENCE and all communication systems serve a purpose ,  a pragmatic function of some sort .
SENTENCE warning of danger perhaps or offering other needed information .
SENTENCE but there're several features peculiar to human language that have ,  for the most part ,  never been found in the communication system of any other species .
SENTENCE for one thing ,  learn ability .
SENTENCE animals have instinctive communication systems .
SENTENCE when a dog ,  a puppy gets to certain age ,  it's able to bark .
SENTENCE it barks without having to learn how from other dogs ,  it just barks .
SENTENCE but much of human language has to be learned from other humans .
SENTENCE what else makes human language unique ?
SENTENCE what makes it different from animal communication ?
SENTENCE deborah ?
SENTENCE how about grammar ?
SENTENCE like having verbs ,  nouns ,  adjectives ?
SENTENCE ok ,  that's another feature .
SENTENCE and it's a good example .
SENTENCE i mean i mention this  cause like in my biology class last year ,  i kind of remember talking about a study on prairie dogs ,  where ,  i think the researchers claimed that the warning cries of prairie dogs constitute language ,  because they have these different parts of speech .
SENTENCE you know ,  like nouns ,  to name the type of predator they spotted ,  adjectives to describe its size and shape ,  verbs   ,  but now it seems like .
SENTENCE all right ,  hold on a moment .
SENTENCE i'm familiar with the study you're talking about .
SENTENCE and for those of you who don't know ,  prairie dogs are not actually dogs .
SENTENCE they're a type of rodent who ,  who burrow in the ground in the grasslands of the western united states and mexico .
SENTENCE in this study ,  the researchers looked at the high pitched barks a prairie dog makes when it spots predator .
SENTENCE and from this they made some pretty   ,  well ,  they made some claims about these calls qualifying as an actual language ,  with its own primitive grammar .
SENTENCE but actually ,  these warning calls are no different from those found among certain types of monkeys .
SENTENCE and ,  well ,  let's not even get into the question of whether concepts like noun and verb can be meaningfully applied to animal communication .
SENTENCE another thing that distinguishes a real language is a property we call  discreteness  .
SENTENCE in other words ,  messages are built up out of smaller parts ,  sentences out of words ,  words out of individual sounds ,  etc .
SENTENCE now maybe you could say that the prairie dog's message is built from smaller parts ,  like say for example ,  our prairie dog spots a predator ,  a big coyote approaching rapidly .
SENTENCE so the prairie dog makes a call that means  coyote  ,  then one that means  large  ,  and then another one to indicate its speed .
SENTENCE but do you really suppose it makes any difference what order these calls come in ?
SENTENCE no .
SENTENCE but the discrete units that make up language can be put together in different ways .
SENTENCE those smaller parts can be used to form an infinite number of messages ,  including messages that are completely novel ,  that have never been expressed before .
SENTENCE for example ,  we can differentiate between   a large coyote moves fast .
SENTENCE and say  move the large coyote fast .
SENTENCE or  move fast ,  large coyote .
SENTENCE ,  and i truly doubt whether anyone has ever uttered either of these sentences before .
SENTENCE human language is productive ,  an open ended communication system ,  whereas no other communication system has this property .
SENTENCE and another feature of language that's not displayed by any form of animal communication is what we call  displacement  .
SENTENCE that is ,  language is abstract enough that we can talk about things that aren't present here and now .
SENTENCE things like  my friend joe is not in the room .
SENTENCE or  it will probably rain next thursday .
SENTENCE prairie dogs may be able to tell you about a hawk that's circling overhead right now ,  but they never show any inclination to describe the one they saw last week .
QUESTION the professor uses the sentence , move the large coyote fast , in order to illustrate two features of language , what are they
OPTION displacement 0
OPTION learnability 0
OPTION productivity 1
OPTION discreteness 1
