SENTENCE hi professor atkins ,  you wanted to see me ?
SENTENCE hi bill thanks for coming .
SENTENCE i wanted to talk to you about   is there    is there something wrong with my research paper ?
SENTENCE no ,  not at all ,  in fact it's very good .
SENTENCE that's why i wanted to talk to you .
SENTENCE i think you know the department is looking to hire a new professor ,  are you familiar with our hiring process ?
SENTENCE no ,  but what is that got to do with me ?
SENTENCE well ,  bill ,  we have several qualified applicants we are serious about .
SENTENCE and as part of the interview process ,  we have them meet with a committee of professors and students in our department .
SENTENCE they also have to give a talk .
SENTENCE you mean like a lecture ?
SENTENCE yes ,  like a sample lecture on one of their academic interestsoh ,  so you can see their teaching style .
SENTENCE uh huh .
SENTENCE make sense .
SENTENCE so i'd like to know if you'd be willing to join us as a student representatives on the interview committee .
SENTENCE it'd be a good experience for you .
SENTENCE you could put it on your resume .
SENTENCE oh  that'd look good for my grad school application ,  i guess ,  so ,  what do ithe department secretary will give you a schedule of the applicants  visits .
SENTENCE if you are free ,  we'd like you to attend their talks and then later you can give us your opinion .
SENTENCE oh ,  and we usually serve lunch or snacks depending on what time the talk is .
SENTENCE cool ,  that's another good reason to do this .
SENTENCE um  when is the next talk ?
SENTENCE we actually haven't had any yet ,  the first one is next friday ,  at 1  am ,  then lunch ,  and then formal discussion with the applicant right after .
SENTENCE oh well ,  i'm free on fridays .
SENTENCE if all the talks are on fridays ,  i will be able to make it to all of them .
SENTENCE that's great ,  now you should know that this job candidate is interested in the life cycles in the forest .
SENTENCE that's what my research about .
SENTENCE yes ,  i know that's why i feel it necessary to point out that even though this applicant's research interests are similar to yours  we want you to tell us what you think about the teaching of all these applicants .
SENTENCE your perspective as a student ,  how the applicant teaches in the classroom ,  that what's important to us .
SENTENCE i understand .
SENTENCE so how many applicants are there ?
SENTENCE let's see ,  we have 4 ,  all very good candidates ,  that we will be looking at over the next few weeks .
SENTENCE it's going to be a tough decision .
SENTENCE but it'll be a good experience for you ,  especially if you're going to grad school .
SENTENCE thank you .
SENTENCE it'll be cool to do this .
SENTENCE i'll get a copy of the schedule from the secretary on my way out .
SENTENCE you're welcome ,  see you in class this afternoon .
QUESTION why does the professor want to see the student
OPTION to discuss the student's grade on a paper 0
OPTION to invite the student to work on a committee 1
OPTION to inform the student about a change in the class schedule 0
OPTION to ask the student to become her research assistant 0
