SENTENCE i'd like to continue with the topic of managing water resources ,  but i want to focus on a particular case .
SENTENCE uh ,  um ,  an example of water management that's made us reconsider the methods we use when we make these decisions .
SENTENCE so let's look at what's happening in the colorado river basin .
SENTENCE the colorado river basin is a region in the southwest united states .
SENTENCE seven states rely on the colorado's water .
SENTENCE and as you can imagine ,  as the populations of these states began to grow ,  it became clear that a system to distribute ,  uh ,  to make sure each state got its fair share of water some kind of system had to be created .
SENTENCE and in 1922 ,  a water sharing agreement was made .
SENTENCE elizabeth ,  you have a question ?
SENTENCE well ,  how exactly do you figure out how to share a river ?
SENTENCE i mean ,  you can't like cut it up into pieces .
SENTENCE well ,  let's start with the first step .
SENTENCE and that's trying to figure out how much water on average flows through the river each year .
SENTENCE now ,  researchers had started gathering data on water flow back in the late 189's using instruments they placed in the river .
SENTENCE when the 1922 water sharing agreement was made ,  there were about twenty years of data on water flow available .
SENTENCE the average annual flow was calculated .
SENTENCE and ,  well ,  the agreement was based on that calculation .
SENTENCE the same basic agreement is in effect today .
SENTENCE wait !
SENTENCE that was all the data they had ?
SENTENCE and they based their decision on that ?
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE and we'll why that was a bad decision in a moment .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE as decades passed ,  it became clear that measuring river flow was much more complicated than we had thought .
SENTENCE see a river has periods of low flow and periods of high flow .
SENTENCE and this wasn't taken into consideration when the 1922 agreement was made .
SENTENCE in the 197's ,  the population of the area was rising while the amount of water flowing through the river seemed to be falling .
SENTENCE by this time ,  we had what ?
SENTENCE a hundred years of recorded data to look at ?
SENTENCE that's still a pretty short time for an ancient river .
SENTENCE to get more data ,  we looked at a different source a source that was able to tell us about hundreds of years of the river's history tree rings .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE let me explain .
SENTENCE you probably know that we can determine a tree's age by counting the rings on a cross section of its trunk .
SENTENCE each ring represents one year of the tree's life .
SENTENCE so if you know the year the tree was cut ,  you can count inwards and date each ring all the way back to the center .
SENTENCE you can also tell how much moisture the tree got during each of those years by looking at the width of the rings .
SENTENCE a wide ring means plenty of water while a narrow one indicates less .
SENTENCE fortunately for us ,  certain areas of the colorado river basin are home to some very old trees ,  some 8   years old and older .
SENTENCE researchers can drill core samples ,  uh ,  basically get a cross section of a tree without having to kill it ,  look at the rings and get a picture of what the climate was like in the basin for each of the tree's years .
SENTENCE well ,  the results tell us something we wouldn't have known without this data ,  that over the past 5   years or so ,  the colorado river basin has experienced severe droughts ,  some worse than any we've ever recorded .
SENTENCE they also showed that the early to mid 19 's ,  when most of the data that led to the water sharing agreement was collected well ,  this was the wettest period in the past 4   years .
SENTENCE well ,  obviously ,  had water management officials known then what we know now ,  the 1922 agreement would have been handled differently .
SENTENCE but today we can use the past to help prepare us for the future .
SENTENCE with the demand for water in the basin stays increasing and with the real likelihood of lower flows in the river ,  if history is our teacher ,  we can develop innovative methods of water conservation and reevaluate how water is distributed .
QUESTION what does the student find surprising about the 1922 water sharing agreement
OPTION it was based on only twenty years of data 1
OPTION it was approved by all seven states in the region 0
OPTION it was meant to remain in effect for more than 100 years 0
OPTION it was based on data from outside the colorado river basin 0
