SENTENCE some of the world's oldest preserved art is the cave art of europe ,  most of it in spain and france .
SENTENCE and the earliest cave paintings found to date are those of the chauvet cave in france discovered in 1994 .
SENTENCE and you know ,  i remember when i heard about the results of the dating of the chauvet paintings ,  i said to my wife ,   can you believe these paintings are over 3  ,     years old ?
SENTENCE and my 3 year old daughter piped up and said ,   is that older than my great grandmother ?
SENTENCE that was the oldest age she knew .
SENTENCE and you know ,  come to think of it .
SENTENCE it's pretty hard for me to really understand how long 3  ,     years is too .
SENTENCE i mean ,  we tend to think that people who lived at that time must have been pretty primitive .
SENTENCE but i'm gonna show you some slides in a few minutes and i think you will agree with me that this art is anything but primitive .
SENTENCE they are masterpieces .
SENTENCE and they look so real ,  so alive that it's very hard to imagine that they are so very old .
SENTENCE now ,  not everyone agrees on exactly how old .
SENTENCE a number of the chauvet paintings have been dated by a lab to 3  ,     or more years ago .
SENTENCE that would make them not just older than any other cave art ,  but about twice as old as the art in the caves at altamira or lascaux ,  which you may have heard of .
SENTENCE some people find it hard to believe chauvet is so much older than altamira and lascaux ,  and they noted that only one lab did the dating for chauvet ,  without independent confirmation from any other lab .
SENTENCE but be that as it may ,  whatever the exact date ,  whether it's 15 ,     ,  2  ,     or 3  ,     years ago ,  the chauvet paintings are from the dawn of art .
SENTENCE so they are a good place to start our discussion of cave painting .
SENTENCE now ,  one thing you've got to remember is the context of these paintings .
SENTENCE paleolithic humans   that's the period we are talking about here ,  the paleolithic ,  the early stone age ,  not too long after humans first arrived in europe   the climate was significantly colder then ,  and so rock shelters ,  shallow caves were valued as homes protected from the wind and rain .
SENTENCE and in some cases at least ,  artists drew on the walls of their homes .
SENTENCE but many of the truly great cave art sites like chauvet were never inhabited .
SENTENCE these paintings were made deep inside a dark cave ,  where no natural light can penetrate .
SENTENCE there's no evidence of people ever living here .
SENTENCE cave bears ,  yes ,  but not humans .
SENTENCE you would have had to make a special trip into the cave to make the paintings ,  and a special trip to go see it .
SENTENCE and each time you'd have to bring along torches to light your way .
SENTENCE and people did go see the art .
SENTENCE there's charcoal marks from their torches on the cave walls clearly dating from thousands of years after the paintings were made .
SENTENCE so we can tell people went there .
SENTENCE they came but they didn't stay .
SENTENCE deep inside a cave like that is not really a place you'd want to stay ,  so ,  why ?
SENTENCE what inspired the paleolithic artists to make such beautiful art in such inaccessible places ?
SENTENCE we'll never really know of course ,  though it's interesting to speculate .
SENTENCE but ,  um ,  getting to the paintings themselves ,  virtually all paleolithic cave art represents animals ,  and chauvet is no exception .
SENTENCE the artists were highly skilled at using ,  or even enhancing ,  the natural shape of the cave walls to give depth and perspectives to their drawings ,  the sense of motion and vitality in these animals .
SENTENCE well ,  wait till i show you the slides .
SENTENCE anyway ,  most paleolithic cave art depicts large herbivores .
SENTENCE horses are most common overall with deer and bison pretty common too ,  probably animals they hunted .
SENTENCE but earlier at chauvet ,  there is a significant interest in large dangerous animals ,  lots of rhinoceros ,  lions ,  mammoth ,  bears .
SENTENCE remember that the ranges of many animal species were different back then ,  so all these animals actually lived in the region at that time .
SENTENCE but the chauvet artists didn't paint people .
SENTENCE there is a half man half bison creature and there is outlines of human hands but no depiction of a full human .
SENTENCE so ,  why these precise animals ?
SENTENCE why not birds ,  fish ,  snakes ?
SENTENCE was it for their religion ,  magic or sheer beauty ?
SENTENCE we don't know .
SENTENCE but whatever it was ,  it was worth it to them to spend hours deep inside a cave with just a torch between them and utter darkness .
SENTENCE so ,  on that note ,  let's dim the lights ,  so we can see these slides and actually look at the techniques they used .
QUESTION when does the professor mention his daughter
OPTION to describe her reaction to seeing the paintings 0
OPTION to explain the universal appeal for the chauvet paintings 0
OPTION to demonstrate the size of most paleolithic cave art 0
OPTION to emphasize his point about the age of chauvet paintings 1
