SENTENCE today we'll continue our examination of ancient roman sculpture .
SENTENCE we've already looked at portrait sculpture which are busts created to commemorate people who had died ,  and we've looked at relief sculpture ,  or sculpting on walls .
SENTENCE and today we'll look at yet another category of sculpture made copies of famous greek sculptures .
SENTENCE why did they do that ?
SENTENCE well no one knows for sure .
SENTENCE you see ,  in the late 4th century b .
SENTENCE c .
SENTENCE ,  the romans began a campaign to expand the roman empire ,  and in 3   years they had conquered most of the mediterranean area and parts of europe .
SENTENCE you know the saying ,  copies .
SENTENCE roman sculptors often  to the victor belong the spoils  ?
SENTENCE well ,  the roman army returned to rome with many works of greek art .
SENTENCE it's probably fair to say that the romans were impressed be greek art and culture and they began making copies of the greek statues .
SENTENCE now the dominant view in traditional art his that roman artists lacked creativity and skill especially compared to the greek artists who came before them .
SENTENCE essentially ,  the traditional view ,  a view that's been prevalent for over 25  years ,  is that the romans copied greek sculptures because they couldn't create sculpture of their own .
SENTENCE but finally some contemporary art historians have challenged this view .
SENTENCE one is elaine gazda  .
SENTENCE gazda says that there might be other reasons that romans made copies .
SENTENCE she wasn't convinced that it was because of a lack of creativity .
SENTENCE can anyone think of another possible reason ?
SENTENCE well maybe they just admired these sculptures .
SENTENCE you know ,  they liked the way they looked .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE that's one of gazda's points .
SENTENCE another is that while nowadays reproduction is easy ,  it was not so easy in roman times .
SENTENCE copying statues required a lot of skill ,  time and effort .
SENTENCE so gazda hypothesizes that copying didn't indicate a lack of artistic imagination or skill on the part of roman artists ,  but rather the romans made copies because they admired greek sculpture .
SENTENCE classical greek statues represented an idealization of the human body and were considered quite beautiful at the time .
SENTENCE gazda also believes that it's been a mistake to dismiss the roman copies as ,  well ,  copies for copy's sake and not to consider the roman function and meaning of the statues .
SENTENCE what do you mean the roman function ?
SENTENCE weren't they just for decoration ?
SENTENCE well ,  not necessarily .
SENTENCE under the emperor augustus at the height of the roman empire ,  portrait statues were sent throughout the empire .
SENTENCE they were supposed to communicate specific ideas about the emperor and the imperial family and to help inhabitants of the conquered areas become familiar with the roman coins were also distributed throughout the empire .
SENTENCE anybody care to guess what was on them ?
SENTENCE the emperor's face ?
SENTENCE that's right !
SENTENCE the coins were easy to distribute and they allowed people to see the emperor or at least his likes and served as an additional reminder to let them know ,  well ,  who was in charge .
SENTENCE and the images helped people become familiar with the emperor .
SENTENCE statues of him in different roles were sent all over the empire .
SENTENCE now ,  actually some roman sculptures were original but others were exact copies of greek statues and some roman sculptures were combinations of some sort .
SENTENCE some combined more than one greek statue and others combined a greek god or an athlete with a roman's head .
SENTENCE at the time of julius caesar ,  i wasn't uncommon to create statues that had the body of a god and the head of an emperor .
SENTENCE and the romans were clever .
SENTENCE what they did was they made plaster casts from molds of the sculptures .
SENTENCE then they shipped these plaster casts to workshops all over the empire ,  where they were replicated in marble or bronze .
SENTENCE and on some statues the heads were removable .
SENTENCE they could put an emperor's head on different bodies ,  showing him doing different things .
SENTENCE and then later when then time came they could even use the head of the next emperor on the same body .
QUESTION according to the professor , why did the romans sometimes remove the emperor's head from a statue
OPTION the head made the statue too heavy to transport 0
OPTION the head was placed on the body of a different statue 1
OPTION the emperor was no longer in power 0
OPTION the emperor was not satisfied with the quality of the statue 1
