SENTENCE ok ,  today we are going to continue our discussion of the parenting behaviorsof birds .
SENTENCE and we are going to start by talking about what are known asnow if you are a bird and there is a predator around .
SENTENCE what are you going to do ?
SENTENCE well ,  for one thing you are going to try to attract as little attention as possible ,  right ?
SENTENCE because if the predator doesn't know you are there ,  it is not going to try to eat you .
SENTENCE but sometimes certain species of birds do the exact opposite .
SENTENCE when a predator approaches ,  they do their best to attract the attention of that predator .
SENTENCE now why would they do that ?
SENTENCE well ,  theydo that to draw the predator away from their nest ,  away from their eggs or their young birds .
SENTENCE and the behaviors that the birds engage in to distract predators are called distraction displays .
SENTENCE and there are a number of different kinds of distraction displays .
SENTENCE most of the time ,  when birds are engaging in distraction displays ,  they are going to be pretending either that they have an injury or that they're ill or that they're exhausted .
SENTENCE you know something that'll make the predator think  ah  here is an easy meal .
SENTENCE distraction display is what's called the broken wing display .
SENTENCE and in a broken wing display ,  the bird spreads and drags a wings or its tail ,  and while it does that ,  it slowly moves away from the nests .
SENTENCE so it really looks like a bird with a broken wing .
SENTENCE and these broken wing displays can be pretty convincing .
SENTENCE another version of this kind of distraction display is where the bird creates the impression of a mouse or some other small animals that's running along the ground .
SENTENCE a good example of that kind of display is created by a bird called the purple sandpiper .
SENTENCE now what's the purple sandpiper does is when a predator approaches ,  it drags its wings but not to give the impression that its wing is broken but to create the illusion that it has a second pair of legs .
SENTENCE and then it raises its feathers ,  so it looks like it's got a coat of fur .
SENTENCE and then it runs along the ground swerving left and right ,  you know like it's running around little rocks and sticks .
SENTENCE and as it goes along ,  it makes this little squealing noise .
SENTENCE so from a distance it really looks and sounds like a little animal running along the ground trying to get away .
SENTENCE again to the predator ,  it looks like an easy meal .
SENTENCE now what's interesting is that birds have different levels of performance of these distraction displays .
SENTENCE they don't give their top performance ,  their prime time performance every time .
SENTENCE what they do is they save their best performances ,  their most conspicuous and most risky displays for the time just before the baby birds become able to take care of themselves .
SENTENCE and they time it that way because that's when they'll have made the greatest investment in parenting their young .
SENTENCE so they are not going to put on their best performance just after they laid their eggs ,  because they haven't invested that much time or energy in parenting yet .
SENTENCE the top performances are going to come later .
SENTENCE now you have some birds that are quiet mature ,  are quite capable almost as soon as they hatch .
SENTENCE in that case ,  the parent will put on the most conspicuous distraction displays just before the babies hatch ,  because once the babies are hatched ,  they can pretty much take care of themselves .
SENTENCE and then you have others birds that are helpless when they hatch .
SENTENCE in that case ,  the parent will save its best performances until just before the babies get their feathers .
QUESTION according to the lecture , when do birds put on their most conspicuous distraction displays
OPTION just before they lay their eggs 0
OPTION immediately after they have laid their eggs 0
OPTION just before their young become independent 1
OPTION immediately after young have left the nest 0
