SENTENCE last time ,  we started to talk about glaciers and how these masses of ice form from crystallized snow ,  and some of you were amazed at how huge some of these glaciers are .
SENTENCE now ,  even though it may be difficult to understand how a huge mass of ice can move or flow ,  it's another word for it ,  it's really known that no secret that the glaciers flow because of gravity .
SENTENCE but how they flow ,  the way they flow ,  needs some explaining .
SENTENCE now ,  the first type of glacier flow is called  basal slip .
SENTENCE basal slip or sliding as it's often called ,  basically refers to the slipping or sliding of a glacier across bedrock ,  actually across a thin layer of water on top of the bedrock .
SENTENCE so ,  this process shouldn't be too hard to imagine .
SENTENCE what happens is that the ice at the base of the glacier is under a great deal of pressure   the pressure coming from the weight of the overlying ice .
SENTENCE and you probably know that under pressure ,  the melting temperature of water ,  of the ice i mean ,  is reduced .
SENTENCE so ,  ice at the base of the glacier melts ,  even though it's below zero degree celsius .
SENTENCE and this results in a thin layer of water between the glacier and the ground .
SENTENCE this layer of water reduces friction is   is like a lubricant .
SENTENCE and it allows the glacier to slide or slip over the bedrock .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE now the next type of movement we will talk about is called  deformation .
SENTENCE you v already known that ice is brittle ,  if you hit it with a hammer ,  it will shatter like glass .
SENTENCE but ice is also plastic ,  it can change shape without breaking .
SENTENCE if you leave ,  for example ,  a bar of ice supported only at one end ,  the end ,  the unsupported end will deform under its own weight ,  it'll kind of flatten out at one end ,  get distorted ,  deformed .
SENTENCE think of deformation as a very slow oozing .
SENTENCE depending on the stresses on the glacier ,  the ice crystal within it reorganize .
SENTENCE and during this re organization the ice crystals realign in a way that allows them to slide pass each other .
SENTENCE and so the glacier oozes downhill without any ice actually melting .
SENTENCE now ,  there are a couple of factors that affect the amount of deformation that takes place or the speed of the glacier's movement for example .
SENTENCE deformation is more likely to occur the thicker the ice is ,  because of the gravity of the weight of the ice .
SENTENCE and temperature also plays a part here ,  in that cold ice does not move as easily as ice that is close to the melting point ,  in fact ,  it is not too different from  the way oil is ,  thicker at lower temperatures .
SENTENCE so ,  if you have a glacier in a slightly warmer region ,  it will flow faster than a glacier in a cooler region .
SENTENCE ok ,  um  now ,  i'd like to touch briefly on extension and compression .
SENTENCE your textbook includes these as types ,  as a particular type of glacier movement ,  but you will see that there are  as many textbooks that omit it as a type of movement as include it .
SENTENCE and i might not include it right now ,  if it weren't in your textbook .
SENTENCE but ,  basically ,  the upper parts of glaciers have less pressure on them .
SENTENCE so ,  they don't deform easily ,  they tend to be more brittle .
SENTENCE and crevasses can form in this upper layers of the glacier .
SENTENCE when the glacier comes into contact with bedrock walls or is otherwise under some kind of stress ,  but can't deform quickly enough .
SENTENCE so ,  the ice would expand or constrict ,  and that can cause big fissures big cracks to form in the surface layers of the ice ,  and that brittle surface ice moving is sometimes considered a type of glacier movement depending on which source you are consulting .
SENTENCE now ,  as you probably know ,  glaciers generally move really slowly .
SENTENCE but sometimes ,  they experience surges ,  and during these surges ,  in some places ,  they can move at speeds as high as 7    meters per year .
SENTENCE now ,  speeds like that are pretty unusual ,  hundreds of times faster than the regular movement of glaciers ,  but you can actually see glacier move during these surges ,  though it is rare .
QUESTION what does the professor say about the speed of glaciers
OPTION it affects the amount of glacial ice that forms 0
OPTION it can be fast enough for movement to be noticeable 1
OPTION it is reduced by cracks in the ice 0
OPTION it is unusually high in colder regions 0
