SENTENCE hi ,  everyone .
SENTENCE good to see you all today .
SENTENCE actually ,  i expected the population to be a lot lower today .
SENTENCE it typically runs between 5  and 6  percent on the day the research paper is due .
SENTENCE um ,  i was hoping to have your exams back today ,  but ,  uh ,  the situation was that i went away for the weekend ,  and i was supposed to get in yesterday at five ,  and i expected to fully complete all the exams by midnight or so ,  which is the time that i usually go to bed ,  but my flight was delayed ,  and i ended up not getting in until one o clock in the morning .
SENTENCE anyway ,  i'll do my best to have them finished by the next time we meet .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE in the last class ,  we started talking about useful plant fibers .
SENTENCE in particular ,  we talked about cotton fibers ,  which we said were very useful ,  not only in the textile industry ,  but also in the chemical industry ,  and in the production of many products ,  such as plastics ,  paper ,  explosives ,  and so on .
SENTENCE today we'll continue talking about useful fibers ,  and we'll begin with a fiber that's commonly known as  manila hemp .
SENTENCE now ,  for some strange reason ,  many people believe that manila hemp is a hemp plant .
SENTENCE but manila hemp is not really hemp .
SENTENCE it's actually a member of the banana family  it even bears little banana shaped fruits .
SENTENCE the  manila  part of the name makes sense ,  because manila hemp is produced chiefly in the philippine islands and ,  of course ,  the capital city of the philippines is manila .
SENTENCE now ,  as fibers go ,  manila hemp fibers are very long .
SENTENCE they can easily be several feet in length and they're also very strong ,  very flexible .
SENTENCE they have one more characteristic that's very important ,  and that is that they are exceptionally resistant to salt water .
SENTENCE and this combination of characteristics long ,  strong ,  flexible ,  resistant to salt water makes manila hemp a great material for ropes ,  especially for ropes that are gonna be used on ocean going ships .
SENTENCE in fact ,  by the early 194 's ,  even though steel cables were available ,  most ships in the united states navy were not moored with steel cables  they were moored with manila hemp ropes .
SENTENCE now ,  why was that ?
SENTENCE well ,  the main reason was that steel cables degrade very ,  very quickly in contact with salt water .
SENTENCE if you've ever been to san francisco ,  you know that the golden gate bridge is red .
SENTENCE and it's red because of the zinc paint that goes on those stainless steel cables .
SENTENCE that ,  if they start at one end of the bridge and they work to the other end ,  by the time they finish ,  it's already time to go back and start painting the beginning of the bridge again ,  because the bridge was built with steel cables ,  and steel cables can't take the salt air unless they're treated repeatedly with a zinc based paint .
SENTENCE on the other hand ,  plant products like manila hemp ,  you can drag through the ocean for weeks on end .
SENTENCE if you wanna tie your anchor to it and drop it right into the ocean ,  that's no problem ,  because plant fibers can stand up for months ,  even years ,  in direct contact with salt water .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE so how do you take plant fibers that individually you could break with your hands and turn them into a rope that's strong enough to moor a ship that weighs thousands of tons ?
SENTENCE well ,  what you do is you extract these long fibers from the manila hemp plant ,  and then you take several of these fibers ,  and you group them into a bundle ,  because by grouping the fibers you greatly increase their breaking strength that bundle of fibers is much stronger than any of the individual fibers that compose it .
SENTENCE and then you take that bundle of fibers and you twist it a little bit ,  because by twisting it ,  you increase its breaking strength even more .
SENTENCE and then you take several of these little bundles ,  and you group and twist them into bigger bundles ,  which you then group and twist into even bigger bundles ,  and so on ,  until eventually ,  you end up with a very ,  very strong rope .
QUESTION why does the professor mention the golden gate bridge
OPTION to demonstrate a disadvantage of steel cables 1
OPTION to give an example of the creative use of color 0
OPTION to show that steel cables are able to resist salt water 0
OPTION to give an example of a use of manila hemp 0
