SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE well ,  last time we talked about passive habitat selection ,  like plants for example ,  they don't make active choices about where to grow .
SENTENCE they are dispersed by some other agent ,  like the wind .
SENTENCE and if the seeds land in a suitable habitat ,  they do well and reproduce .
SENTENCE with active habitat selection ,  an organism is able to physically select where to live and breed .
SENTENCE and because an animal's breeding habitat is so important ,  we'd expect animal species to have developed preferences for particular types of habitats ,  places where their offspring have the best chance of survival .
SENTENCE so let's look at the effect this preference can have by looking at some examples .
SENTENCE but first let's recap .
SENTENCE what do we mean by habitat ?
SENTENCE frank ?
SENTENCE well ,  it's basically the place or environment where an organism normally lives and grows .
SENTENCE right ,  and as we v discussed ,  there are some key elements that a habitat must contain ,  food obviously ,  water ,  it's got to have the right climate and spaces for physical protection .
SENTENCE and we saw how important habitat selection is when we look at habitats where some of these factors are removed ,  perhaps through habitat destruction .
SENTENCE i just read about a shorebird ,  the plover .
SENTENCE the plover lives by the ocean and feeds on small shellfish ,  insects and plants .
SENTENCE it blends in with the sand ,  so it's well camouflaged from predator birds above .
SENTENCE but it lays its eggs in shallow depressions in the sand with very little protection around them .
SENTENCE so if there are people or dogs on the beach ,  the eggs and fledglings in the nests are really vulnerable .
SENTENCE out in california where there has been a lot of human development by the ocean .
SENTENCE the plovers are now a threatened species .
SENTENCE so conservationists tried to recreate a new habitat for them .
SENTENCE they made artificial beaches and sand bars in areas inaccessible to people and dogs .
SENTENCE and the plover population is up quite a bit in those places .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE that is an instance where a habitat is made less suitable .
SENTENCE but now ,  what about cases where an animal exhibits a clear choice between two suitable habitats ?
SENTENCE in cases like that ,  does the preference matter ?
SENTENCE well ,  let's look at the blue warbler .
SENTENCE the blue warbler is a songbird that lives in north america .
SENTENCE they clearly prefer hard wood forests with dense shrubs ,  bushes underneath the trees .
SENTENCE they actually nest in the shrubs ,  not the trees .
SENTENCE so they're pretty close to the ground ,  but these warblers also nest in forests that have low shrub density .
SENTENCE it is usually the younger warblers that nest in these areas because the preferred spots where there are a lot of shrubs are taken by the older ,  more dominant birds .
SENTENCE and the choice of habitat seems to affect reproductive success .
SENTENCE because the older ,  more experienced birds who nest in the high density shrub areas have significantly more offspring than those in low density areas ,  which suggests that the choice of where to nest does have an impact on the number of chicks they have .
SENTENCE but a preferred environment doesn't always seem to correlate with greater reproductive success .
SENTENCE for example ,  in europe ,  studies have been done of blackcap warblers .
SENTENCE we just call them blackcaps .
SENTENCE the blackcap can be found in two different environments .
SENTENCE their preferred habitat is forests near the edge of streams .
SENTENCE however ,  blackcaps also live in pine woods away from water .
SENTENCE studies have been done on the reproductive success rates for the birds in both areas ,  and the result showed surprisingly that the reproductive success was essentially the same in both areas    the preferred and the second choice habitat .
SENTENCE well .
SENTENCE why ?
SENTENCE it turned out that there were actually four times as many bird pairs or couples living in the stream edge habitat compared to the area away from the stream .
SENTENCE so this stream edge area had a much denser population ,  which meant more members of the same species competing for resources ,  wanting to feed on the same things or build their nests in the same places ,  which lower the suitability of the prime habitat even though it's their preferred habitat .
SENTENCE so the results of the study suggest that when the number of the competitors in the prime habitat reaches a certain point ,  the second rank habitat becomes just as successful as the prime habitat ,  just because there are fewer members of the same species living there .
SENTENCE so it looks like competition for resources is another important factor in determining if a particular habitat is suitable .
QUESTION why does the professor mention the population density of blackcaps in two different habitats
OPTION to explain the similar reproductive rates in the two habitats 1
OPTION to explain the relation between a species'spopulation density and its nesting behavior 0
OPTION to illustrate the advantages of a preferred habitat over a secondary habitat 0
OPTION to illustrate the possible impact of making a poor habitat selection 0
