SENTENCE ok ,  today we are going to continue our discussion of plant life in coastal salt marshes of north america .
SENTENCE salt marshes are among the least inviting environments for plants .
SENTENCE the water is salty ,  there is little shade and the ocean tide comes in and out ,  constantly flooding the marsh ,  so the variety of plants found in salt marshes is limited ,  but there is a plant genus that thrives there ,  the spartina .
SENTENCE in fact ,  the spartina genus is the dominant plant found in salt marshes .
SENTENCE you can find one type of the spartina ,  saltmarsh cordgrass ,  growing in low marsh areas .
SENTENCE in higher marsh areas ,  you are likely to find a spartina commonly called salt meadow hay .
SENTENCE so how is the spartina able to survive in an envrionment that would kill most plants ?
SENTENCE well ,  it is because salt marsh grasses have found ways to adapt to the conditions there .
SENTENCE first of all ,  they are able to withstand highly saline conditions .
SENTENCE one really interesting adaptation is the ability to reverse the process of osmosis6 .
SENTENCE typically ,  the process of osmosis works   well ,  when water moves through the wall of a plant cell ,  it will move from the side containing water with the lowest amount of salt into the side containing the highest amount of salt .
SENTENCE so imagine what would happen if a typical plant suddenly found itself in salt water ,  the water contained in the plant cells ,  that is water with very little salt would be drawn out toward the seawater ,  water with a lot of salt .
SENTENCE so you can see the fresh water contained in the plant will be removed and the plant will quickly lose all its water and dehydrate .
SENTENCE but what about the spartinas ,  well ,  they allow a certain amount of salt to enter their cells ,  bringing the salt content of the water within the plant ,  to a slightly higher concentration than that of the surrounding seawater .
SENTENCE so instead of fresh water moving out of the plant cells ,  salt from the seawater enters ,  reverse osmosis ,  and this actually strengthens the cells .
SENTENCE another adaptation to the salty environment is the ability to excrete excess salt back to the environment .
SENTENCE that's why you might see a spartina shimmering in the sunlight .
SENTENCE what's reflecting the light is not salt from seawater that has evaporated ,  although that's a good guess .
SENTENCE but it is actually the salt that came from within the plant .
SENTENCE pretty cool ,  eh ?
SENTENCE you can really impress your friends and family with that little  ?
SENTENCE the next time you are in a salt marsh .
SENTENCE but coping with salt is not the only challenge for plants in the salt marsh .
SENTENCE soil there is dense and very low in oxygen ,  so spartinas have air tubes ,  air enters through tiny openings on the leaves ,  the tubes provide direct pipe line for oxygen ,  carrying it down the leaves through the stems and into the roots ,  where it is needed .
SENTENCE if you pull up a spartina ,  you might even notice some reddish mud on some of the roots ,  this is caused by oxygen reacting with iron sulfide in the soil ,  and it produces iron oxide or rust .
SENTENCE now ,  although the spartinas have adapted several chemical and physical mechanisms that allow them to thrive in salt water and to feed oxygen to their roots .
SENTENCE there is yet another aspect of the harsh environment that they have to adapt to ,  the force of tides and occasional violent storms .
SENTENCE wind and water are constantly crashing into these plants .
SENTENCE so as you might have guessed ,  they have developed a means of solidly anchoring themselves into the soil .
SENTENCE how ?
SENTENCE they have tough sort of underground stems called rhizome ,  rhizomes from one plant grow through the muddy soil and interlock with those of other nearby plants ,  the plants form a kind of colony ,  a community that will thrive and perish together .
SENTENCE because alone as single plants ,  they cannot survive .
SENTENCE \of course the plants in these colonies also need tough resilient stems above the soil ,  stems that can bent a lot but not break as water constantly crashes into them .
SENTENCE so in addtion to the interlocking underground rhizomes ,  they have yet another adaptation ,  and it is    well ,  we are back to reverse osmosis again ,  by adjusting the osmotic pressure so that the cells are always fully inflated ,  the plant is able to withstand great pressure befor snapping ,  so spartinas may look like simple marsh grass ,  but they are really a wonder of chemistry ,  physics and structural engineering that allows them to survive and even thrive in an evironment in which most plants will wilt7 and die within hours .
SENTENCE life in new hampshire salt marshes  .
QUESTION what is one result of reverse osmosis in the spartina
OPTION salt from seawater strengthens the plant's cells 1
OPTION all parts of the plant are able to receive oxygen 0
OPTION salt evaporates oil the stems and leaves of the plant 0
OPTION water is unat3le to move across the plant cell wails 0
