SENTENCE we've been talking about the art world of the late 19th century in paris .
SENTENCE and today i'd like to look at the women who went to paris at that time to become artists .
SENTENCE now from your reading what do you know about paris ,  about the art world of paris during the late 19th century ?
SENTENCE people came there from all over the world to study .
SENTENCE it had a lot of art schools and artists who taught painting .
SENTENCE there were ,  our book mentions classes for women artists .
SENTENCE and it was a good place to go to study art .
SENTENCE if you wanted to become an artist ,  paris was not a good place to go  paris was the place to go .
SENTENCE and women could find skilled instructors there .
SENTENCE before the late 19th century .
SENTENCE if they women who wanted to become artists had to take private lessons or learn from family members .
SENTENCE they had more limited options than men did .
SENTENCE but around 187's ,  some artists in paris began to offer classes for female s .
SENTENCE these classes were for women only .
SENTENCE and by the end of the 19th century ,  it became much more common for women and men to study together in the same classes .
SENTENCE so within a few decades ,  things had changed significantly .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE let's back up again and talk about the time period from the 186's to the 188's and talk more about what happened in women's art classes .
SENTENCE in 1868 ,  a private art academy opened in paris ,  and for decades it was probably the most famous private art school in the world .
SENTENCE its founder rodolphe julian was a canny businessman .
SENTENCE and quickly established his school as a premier destination for women artists .
SENTENCE what he did was  after an initial trail period of mixed classes ,  he changed the school policy .
SENTENCE he completely separated the men and women s .
SENTENCE any reason why he did that ?
SENTENCE well .
SENTENCE like i said julian was a brilliant businessman ,  with progressive ideas .
SENTENCE he saw that another small private art school where all the s were women was very popular at that time .
SENTENCE and that's probably why he adopted the women only classes .
SENTENCE his classes were typically offered by   by established artists and were held in the studio ,  the place where they painted .
SENTENCE this was a big deal because finally women could study art in a formal setting .
SENTENCE and there was another benefit to the group setting of these classes .
SENTENCE the classes included weekly criticism .
SENTENCE and the teacher would rank the art of all the s in the class from best to worst .
SENTENCE how would you like it if i did that in this class ?
SENTENCE but our textbook said that the competitive the competition was good for women .
SENTENCE it helped them see where they needed to improve .
SENTENCE isn't that interesting ?
SENTENCE one woman artist ,  her name was marie bashkirtseff .
SENTENCE bashkirtseff once wrote how she felt about a classmate's work .
SENTENCE she thought her classmate's art was much better than her own and it gave her an incentive to do better .
SENTENCE overall the competition in the women's art classes gave women more confidence .
SENTENCE confidence that they could also compete in the art world after their schooling .
SENTENCE and even though bashkirtseff could not study in the same classes as men ,  she was having an impact as an artist .
SENTENCE just look like the salon ,  what do you know about the salon ?
SENTENCE it was a big exhibition ,  a big art show that they had in pairs every year .
SENTENCE they art had to be accepted by judges .
SENTENCE it was a big deal you can make a name for yourself .
SENTENCE you can have a painting or sculpture in the salon and go back to your home country saying you 've been a success in paris .
SENTENCE it was sort of uh ,  a seal of approval .
SENTENCE it was a great encouragement for an artist's career .
SENTENCE and by the last two decades of the 19th century ,  one fifth of the paintings in the salon were by women ,  much higher than in the past .
SENTENCE in fact ,  marie bashkirtseff herself had a painting in the salon in 1881 .
SENTENCE interestingly this masterpiece called in the studio is a painting of the interior of julian's art school .
SENTENCE it is not in your textbook .
SENTENCE i will show you the painting next week .
SENTENCE the painting depicts an active crowded studio with women drawing and painting a live model .
SENTENCE it was actually bashkirtseff ,  actually followed julian's savvy suggestion and painted her fellow s in a class at the school with the artist herself at the far right .
SENTENCE a great advertisement for the school when the painting eventually hung up at the salon ,  for a women's studio had never been painted before .
QUESTION according to the professor , what were two ways that the situation of women artists had changed by then end of the nineteenth century in paris
OPTION women and men took art classes together 1
OPTION women artists played a greater role in the salon exhibitions 1
OPTION more schools were established by women artists 0
OPTION fewer women artists were traveling to paris 0
