SENTENCE ok ,  i have an interesting plant species to discuss with you today .
SENTENCE uh it's a species of a very rare tree that grows in australia ,  eidothea hardeniana ,  but it's better known as the nightcap oak .
SENTENCE now ,  it was discovered only very recently ,  just a few years ago .
SENTENCE um  it remained hidden for so long because it's so rare .
SENTENCE there are only about 2   of them in existence .
SENTENCE they grow in a rain forest ,  in a mountain rage range in the north part of new south wales which is uh  a state in australia .
SENTENCE so just 2   individual trees in all .
SENTENCE now another interesting thing about the nightcap oak is that it is it represents uh a very old type uh kind of tree that grew a hundred million years ago .
SENTENCE um ,  we found fossils that old that bear remarkable resemblance to the tree .
SENTENCE so ,  it's a primitive tree .
SENTENCE a a living fossil you might say .
SENTENCE it's relic from earlier times and it has survived all these years without much change .
SENTENCE and it it's probably a kind of tree from which other trees that grow in australia today evolved .
SENTENCE just to give you an idea of what we are talking about .
SENTENCE here's a picture of the leaves of the tree and its flowers .
SENTENCE i don't know how well you can see the flowers .
SENTENCE they're those little clusters sitting at the base of the leaves .
SENTENCE okay ,  what have we tried to find out about the tree since we've discovered it ?
SENTENCE hmm or how why is is it so rare ?
SENTENCE it's one of the first questions .
SENTENCE um  how is it um how does it reproduce ?
SENTENCE it's another question .
SENTENCE um ,  maybe those two questions are actually related .
SENTENCE jim ?
SENTENCE hmm  i don't know .
SENTENCE but i can imagine that for instance ,  seed dispersal might be a factor .
SENTENCE i mean if the er you know ,  if the seeds cannot really disperse in the wild area ,  then ,  you know ,  the tree may not colonize new areas .
SENTENCE it can't spread from the area where it's growing .
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE that's that's actually a very good answer .
SENTENCE uh ,  of course ,  you might think there might not be many areas where the tree could spread into ,  er because um well ,  it's very specialized in terms of the habitat .
SENTENCE but ,  that's not really the case here .
SENTENCE um the suitable habitat ,  that is ,  the actual rainforest is much larger than the few hectares where the nightcap oak grows .
SENTENCE now this tree is a flowering tree as i showed you .
SENTENCE um um it produces a fruit ,  much like a plum .
SENTENCE on the inci inside there's a seed with a hard shell .
SENTENCE it it appears that the shell has to crack open or break down somewhat to allow the seed to soak up water .
SENTENCE you know ,  if the nightcap oak remains if their seeds remain locked inside their shell ,  they will not germinate .
SENTENCE actually ,  the seeds er they don't retain the power to germinate for very long ,  maybe two years .
SENTENCE so there's actually quite a short window of opportunity for the seed to germinate .
SENTENCE so the shell somehow has to be broken down before this um germination ability expires .
SENTENCE and and then there's a kind of rat that likes to feed on the seeds as well .
SENTENCE so ,  given all these limitations ,  not many seeds that the tree produces will actually germinate .
SENTENCE so this is a possible explanation for why the tree does not spread .
SENTENCE it doesn't necessarily explain how it became so rare ,  but it explains why it doesn't increase .
SENTENCE ok ,  so it seems to be the case that the species ,  this nightcap oak is not very good at spreading .
SENTENCE however ,  it seems ,  though we can't be sure ,  that it's very good at persisting as a population .
SENTENCE um we there's some indications to suggest that the population of the nightcap oak has not declined over the last .
SENTENCE er you know ,  many hundreds of years .
SENTENCE so it's stayed quite stable .
SENTENCE it's not a remnant of some huge population that is dwindled in the last few hundred years for some reason .
SENTENCE it's not necessarily a species in retreat .
SENTENCE ok ,  so it cannot spread very well ,  but it's good at maintaining itself .
SENTENCE it's rare ,  but it's not disappearing .
SENTENCE ok ,  the next thing we might want to ask about a plant like that is what chances does it have to survive into the future .
SENTENCE let's look at that .
QUESTION what topic related to the nightcap oak does the professor mainly discuss
OPTION factors that relate to the size of the area in which it grows 1
OPTION the size of its population over the last few centuries 1
OPTION whether anything can be done to ensure its survival 0
OPTION why it did not change much over the last one hundred million years 0
