SENTENCE hi ,  um  ,  i really hope you can help me .
SENTENCE that's why i'm here .
SENTENCE what can i do for you ?
SENTENCE i'm supposed to do a literature review for my psychology course ,  but i'm  having a hard time finding articles .
SENTENCE i don't even know where to start looking .
SENTENCE you said this is for your psychology course ,  right ?
SENTENCE so your focus is on  well ,  you have a focus ,  so that's already a good start .
SENTENCE hmmm  well ,  there're a few things  oh wait  have you checked to see if your professor put any material for you to look at on reserve ?
SENTENCE aha ,  that's one thing i did know to do .
SENTENCE i just copied an article ,  but i still need three more on my topic from three different journals .
SENTENCE let's get you going on looking for those then .
SENTENCE we have printed versions of twenty or so psychology journals in the reference section .
SENTENCE these are ones published within the last year .
SENTENCE now that i think about it  there's a journal named sleep and dreams .
SENTENCE oh ,  yeah ,  the article i just copied is from that journal ,  so i've got to look in other sources .
SENTENCE ok ,  actually ,  most of our materials are available electronically now .
SENTENCE you can access psychology databases or electronic journals and articles through the library's computers ,  and if you want to search by title with the word  dream  for example ,  just type it in and all the articles with  dream  in the title will come up on the screen .
SENTENCE cool ,  that's great !
SENTENCE too bad i cannot do this from home .
SENTENCE but you can .
SENTENCE all of the library's databases and electronic sources can be accessed through any computer connected to the university network .
SENTENCE really ?
SENTENCE i can't believe i didn't know that .
SENTENCE it still sounds like it's going to take a while though ,  you know ,  going through all of that information ,  all of those sources .
SENTENCE maybe ,  but you already narrowed your search down to articles on dream interpretation ,  so it shouldn't be too bad .
SENTENCE and you probably notice that there's an abstract or summary at the top of the first page of the article you copied .
SENTENCE when you go into the databases and electronic sources ,  you have the option to display the abstracts on the computer screen ,  skimming those to decide whether or not you want to read the whole article should cut down some time .
SENTENCE right ,  abstracts !
SENTENCE they'll definitely make the project more doable .
SENTENCE i guess i should try out the electronic search while i'm still here then ,  you know ,  just in case .
SENTENCE sure ,  er  that computer's free over there ,  and i'll be here till five this afternoon .
SENTENCE thanks ,  i feel a lot better about this assignment now .
QUESTION what does the librarian say about the availability of journals and articles in the library
OPTION they are not easy to find if a professor put them on reserve 0
OPTION most of them are accessible in an electronic format 1
OPTION most of them can be checked out for three weeks 0
OPTION printed versions from the past three years are located in the reference section 0
