SENTENCE so we've been talking about nutrients ,  the elements in the environment that are essential for living organisms to develop ,  live a healthy life and reproduce .
SENTENCE some nutrients are quite scarce  there just isn't much of them in the environment .
SENTENCE but fortunately they get recycled .
SENTENCE when nutrients are used over and over in the environment ,  we call that a nutrient cycle .
SENTENCE because of the importance of nutrients and their scarcity ,  nutrient recycling is one of the most significant eco system processes that we'll cover in this course .
SENTENCE the three most important nutrient recycles are the nitrogen cycle ,  the carbon cycle and the one we are going to talk about today ,  the phosphorus cycle .
SENTENCE so the phosphorus cycle has been studied a lot by ecologists because like i said ,  phosphorus is an important nutrient and it's not so abundant .
SENTENCE the largest quantities are found in rocks and at the bottom of the ocean .
SENTENCE how does phosphorus get there ?
SENTENCE well ,  let's start with the phosphorus in rocks .
SENTENCE the rocks get broken down into smaller and smaller particles as they are weathered .
SENTENCE they are weathered slowly by rain and wind over long periods of time .
SENTENCE phosphorus is slowly released as the rocks are broken down and it gets spread around into the soil .
SENTENCE once it's in the soil ,  plants absorb it through their roots .
SENTENCE so that's the reason people mine rocks that contain a lot of phosphorus to help with agriculture ?
SENTENCE uh huh ,  they mined the rock ,  artificially break it down and put the phosphorus into agricultural fertilizers .
SENTENCE so humans can play a role in the first part of the phosphorus cycle    the breaking down of rocks and the spreading of phosphorus into the soil by speeding up the rate at which this natural process occurs .
SENTENCE you see .
SENTENCE now after the phosphorus is in the soil ,  plants grow .
SENTENCE they use phosphorus from the soil to grow .
SENTENCE and when they die ,  they decompose .
SENTENCE and the phosphorus is recycled back into the soil  same thing with the animals that eat those plants ,  or eat other animals that have eaten those plants .
SENTENCE we call all of this   the land phase of the phosphorus cycle .
SENTENCE but a lot of the phosphorus in soil gets washed away into rivers by rain and melting snow .
SENTENCE and so begins another phase of the cycle .
SENTENCE can anyone guess what it is called ?
SENTENCE nancy ?
SENTENCE well ,  if the one is called the land phase ,  then this has to be called the water phase ,  right ?
SENTENCE yes ,  that's such a difficult point isn't it ?
SENTENCE in a normal water phase ,  rivers eventually empty into oceans ,  and once in the oceans ,  the phosphorus gets absorbed by water plants like algae .
SENTENCE then fish eats the algae or eat other fish that have eaten those plants .
SENTENCE but the water phase is sometime affected by excessive fertilizers .
SENTENCE if not all of phosphorus gets used by the crops and large amounts of phosphorus gets into the rivers .
SENTENCE this could cause rapid growth of water plants in the river ,  which can lead to the water ways getting clogged with organisms ,  which can change the flow of the water .
SENTENCE several current studies are looking at these effects and i really do hope we can find a way to deal with this issue before these ecosystems are adversely affected .
SENTENCE ok ?
SENTENCE of course ,  another way that humans can interrupt the normal process is fishing .
SENTENCE the fishing industry helps bring phosphorus back to land .
SENTENCE in the normal water phase the remaining phosphorus makes its way ,  settles to the bottom of the ocean and gets mixed into ocean sediments .
SENTENCE but remember ,  this is a cycle .
SENTENCE the phosphorus at the bottom of the ocean has to somehow make its way back to the surface ,  to complete the cycle ,  to begin the cycle all over again .
SENTENCE after millions of years ,  powerful geological forces ,  like underwater volcanoes lift up the ocean sediments to form new land .
SENTENCE when an underwater volcano pushes submerged rock to the surface ,  a new island is created .
SENTENCE then over many more years the phosphorus rich rocks of the new land begin to erode and the cycle continues .
SENTENCE what about ,  well ,  you said that the nitrogen cycle is also an important nutrient cycle .
SENTENCE and there is a lot of nitrogen in the atmosphere ,  so i was wondering ,  is there a lot of phosphorus in the atmosphere too ?
SENTENCE good question ,  george .
SENTENCE you're right to guess that phosphorus can end up in earth's atmosphere .
SENTENCE it can move from the land or from the oceans to the atmosphere ,  and vice versa .
SENTENCE however ,  there's just not a substantial amount of it there ,  like there is with nitrogen ,  it's a very minimal quantity .
QUESTION why does the professor discuss underwater volcanoes
OPTION to describe the location of most of the phosphorus on earth 0
OPTION to point out the difficulty of studying the phosphorus cycle 0
OPTION to describe a step in the phosphorus cycle 1
OPTION to illustrate the differences between two phases in the phosphorus cycle 0
