SENTENCE now in europe in the middle ages before the invention of printing and the printing press ,  all books ,  all manuscripts were hand made .
SENTENCE and the material typically used for the pages was parchment ,  which is animal skin that's stretched and dried under tension ,  so it become's really flat and can be written on  .
SENTENCE during the 14 's ,  when printing was being developed ,  paper became the predominant material for books in europe ,  but prior to that ,  it was parchment .
SENTENCE parchment is durable ,  much more so than paper ,  and it could be reused which came in handy since it was a costly material and in short supply ,  so it wasn  't uncommon for the scribes or monks who produced the manuscripts  .
SENTENCE ah ,  remember before printing books were made mainly in monasteries  .
SENTENCE well ,  the scribes often recycled the parchment that'd been used for earlier manuscripts .
SENTENCE they simplyerased the ink off the parchment and wrote something new in its placea manuscript page that was written on ,  erased and then used again ispalimpsests were created ,  well ,  we know about two methods that were used for removing ink from parchment .
SENTENCE in the late middle ages ,  it was customary to scrape away the surface of the parchment with an abrasive ,  which completely wiped out any writing that was there .
SENTENCE but earlier in the middle ages ,  the original ink was usually removed by washing the used parchment with milk .
SENTENCE that removed the ink .
SENTENCE but with the passing of time ,  the original writing might reappear .
SENTENCE in fact  ,  it might reappear to the extent that scholars could make out and even decipher the original text .
SENTENCE perhaps ,  the most famous example is the archimedes  palimpsest .
SENTENCE archimedes lived in greece around 2   bce ,  and as you probably know ,  he's considered one of the greatest mathematicians who ever lived ,  even though many of his writings had been lost  ,  including what many now think to be his most important work called the method  .
SENTENCE but in 1998 ,  a book of prayers from the middle ages sold in an art auction for a lot of money ,  more money than anyone would pay for a damaged book from the 12th century .
SENTENCE beautiful or not ,  why ?
SENTENCE it had been discovered that the book was a palimpsest ,  and beneath the surface writing of the manuscript laid ,  guess what ?
SENTENCE mathematical theorems and diagrams from archimedes .
SENTENCE archimedes  writings were originally done on papyrus scrolls .
SENTENCE then in the 1  th century ,  a scribe made a copy on parchment of some of his texts and diagrams including ,  as it turns out ,  the method  .
SENTENCE this was extremely fortunate ,  since later on ,  the original papyrus scrolls disappeared .
SENTENCE about 2   years later in the 12 th century ,  this parchment manuscript became a palimpsest when a scribe used the parchment to make a prayer book .
SENTENCE so the pages ,  the pieces of parchment themselves ,  had been preserved .
SENTENCE but the archimedes  text was erased and written over ,  and no one knew it existed .
SENTENCE it wasn't until 19 6 that a scholar came across the prayer book in a library and realized it was a palimpsest ,  and that the underlying layer of texts could only have come from archimedes .
SENTENCE that was when his work the method was discovered for the first time .
SENTENCE um   the palimpsest then went through some more tough times ,  but eventually it ended up in an art auction where was bought and then donated to an art museum in baltimore ,  for conservation and study .
SENTENCE to avoid further damage to the manuscript ,  the research team at the art museum has had to be extremely selective in the techniques they used to see the original writing .
SENTENCE they've used ultraviolet light and some other techniques ,  and if you're interested in that sort of thing ,  you can learn more about it in an art conservation class .
SENTENCE but actually ,  it was a physicist who came up with a method that was a breakthrough .
SENTENCE he realized that the iron in the ancient ink would display if exposed to a certain x ray imaging method ,  and except for small portions of the text that couldn't be deciphered ,  this technique's been very helpful in seeing archimedes  texts and drawings through the medieval overwriting .
QUESTION what does the professor imply about the various techniques used to view archimedes'stext
OPTION the students should be familiar with most of the techniques 0
OPTION different techniques were used to analyze the iron content of ancient ink 0
OPTION the use of ultraviolet light was more damaging than the other techniques 0
OPTION x ray image was more effective than the other techniques 1
