SENTENCE we've been talking about animal cognition the study of animal intelligence .
SENTENCE now ,  much of the research in this area is motivated by the search for animal analogues ,  or parallels to human cognitive processes .
SENTENCE and one of the processes we've been investigating is metacognition .
SENTENCE what is metacognition ?
SENTENCE well ,  it's being aware of what one knows or feels ,  uh ,  um  having an awareness of one's state of mind .
SENTENCE and making decisions about behavior based on what one knows .
SENTENCE researchers have long been interested in whether animals possess this capability ,  but but couldn't test it because animals aren't able to report their feelings .
SENTENCE but recently one group of researchers found a way to solve this problem .
SENTENCE they did studies with with monkeys and dolphins that provide evidence that these animals have the ability to feel uncertainty ,  to feel unsure about something and and well ,  to know that they are uncertain .
SENTENCE so how could these researchers figure out if an animal feels uncertainty .
SENTENCE well ,  it began with a study one of them did on a dolphin ,  who had been trained to recognize a particular high pitched tone .
SENTENCE the dolphin was taught to press one of two paddles depending on whether it heard the high tone or one that was lower .
SENTENCE food was a reward for a correct response .
SENTENCE but if the wrong paddle was pressed ,  the dolphin had to wait several seconds before it could try again .
SENTENCE the task varied in difficulty according to the pitch of the second tone .
SENTENCE the closer it came in pitch to the first one ,  the hard it became for the dolphin to correctly identify it as low .
SENTENCE and the researcher noted that the dolphin is quite eager to press the paddle when it was sure of the answer ,  but exhibited hesitation during difficult trials .
SENTENCE next the researcher introduced a third option ,  a third paddle that would initiate a new trial ,  giving the dolphin the choice of passing on difficult trials .
SENTENCE once the dolphin figured out the result of pressing this new paddle ,  it did choose it frequently when the trial was difficult .
SENTENCE the researcher took that as an indication that the animal wanted to pass because it didn't know the answer and knew it didn't know .
SENTENCE but there was a problem .
SENTENCE other researchers protested that the  the opt out response was simply a learned or conditioned response .
SENTENCE you remember intro to psychology ,  right ?
SENTENCE in other words ,  by pressing the pass paddle ,  the dolphin avoided having to wait and hasten the possibility of a full reward by moving directly to the next trial .
SENTENCE so the experiment didn't necessarily indicate that the dolphin had knowledge of its own uncertainty ,  just that it wanted to avoid negative consequences .
SENTENCE so more recently ,  our researcher and his colleagues devised a new study ,  this time using monkeys .
SENTENCE in this experiment ,  the monkeys had to identify certain patterns displayed on a computer screen .
SENTENCE these patterns were analogous to the tones used in the dolphin study .
SENTENCE one type of pattern was of a specific density and was to be classified as dense ,  while the second type of pattern could vary in density ,  but was always less dense than the first one .
SENTENCE and the monkeys  task was to identify this second type as sparse .
SENTENCE so the denser the second type of pattern was ,  the more difficult the task became .
SENTENCE and as in a previous study ,  the monkeys were given a third choice that would allow them to pass on to a new trial .
SENTENCE but unlike in the dolphin experiment ,  the monkeys had to complete four trials before they got any feedback .
SENTENCE they didn't know if they responded correctly or incorrectly after each trial because there was no reward or punishment .
SENTENCE at the end of four trials ,  feedback was given .
SENTENCE the monkeys received a full reward for each correct response .
SENTENCE and a time out during which a buzzer was sounded for each incorrect response .
SENTENCE but the monkeys had no way to tell which reward or punishment was associated with which response .
SENTENCE and they didn't get either reward or punishment for choosing the pass option ,  the um the uncertainty response .
SENTENCE but nevertheless they still chose this option in the appropriate circumstances when the trial was particularly difficult .
SENTENCE and this is evidence that it wasn't a conditioned response ,  because that response didn't guarantee a faster reward .
SENTENCE so what does all this tell us about animal consciousness or animals  awareness of themselves and their state of mind ?
SENTENCE can we really know what's going on in the minds of animals ?
SENTENCE no .
SENTENCE of course not .
SENTENCE but exploring the metacognitive capacity of animals could become an important criterion in highlighting the similarities and differences between human and animal minds .
SENTENCE http   books .
SENTENCE google .
SENTENCE com books ?
SENTENCE id nd4u ydmx88c pg pa317 lpg pa317 dq metacognition dolphin press paddles source bl ots co2_da3olo sig fsfz5eeouh j spyqmofbcisnys hl en sa x ei d_bjucn9e6t7yghe4ogqcw ved  cecq6aewba v onepage q metacognition 2 dolphin 2 press 2 paddles f false .
QUESTION in the dolphin study, how did the researcher make the dolphin's task increasingly difficult
OPTION by showing the dolphin two patterns that were similar in density 0
OPTION by playing two sounds that became progressively closer in pitch 1
OPTION by producing sounds that were just within the dolphins' range of hearing 0
OPTION by introducing a third paddle that ended on trial an began a new one 0
