SENTENCE now ,  we've been talking about the loss of animal habitat from housing developments ,  um  ,  growing cities   small habitat losses .
SENTENCE but today i wanna begin talking about what happens when habitat is reduced across a large area .
SENTENCE there are ,  of course ,  animal species that require large areas of habitat ,  and some migrate over very long distances .
SENTENCE so what's the impact of habitat loss on those animals   animals that need large areas of habitat ?
SENTENCE well ,  i'll use the humming birds as an example .
SENTENCE now you know a humming bird is amazingly small ,  but even though it's really tiny ,  it migrates over very long distances ,  travels up and down the western hemisphere   the americas ,  back and forth between where it breeds in the summer and the warmer climates where it spends the winter .
SENTENCE so we would say that this whole area over which it migrates is its habitat because on this long distance journey ,  it needs to come down to feed and sleep every so often ,  right ?
SENTENCE well ,  the humming bird beats its wings   get this   about 3 thousand times per minute .
SENTENCE so you think ,  wow ,  it must need a lot of energy ,  a lot of food ,  right ?
SENTENCE well ,  it does .
SENTENCE it drinks a lot of nectar from flowers and feeds on some insects ,  but it's energy efficient too .
SENTENCE you can't say it isn't .
SENTENCE i mean ,  as it flies all the way across the gulf of mexico ,  it uses up almost none of its body fat .
SENTENCE but that doesn't mean it doesn't need to eat .
SENTENCE so humming birds have to rely on plants in their natural habitat .
SENTENCE and it goes without saying ,  but ,  well ,  the opposite is true as well ,  plants depend on humming birds too .
SENTENCE there are some flowers that can only be pollinated by the humming birds .
SENTENCE without it stopping to feed and spreading pollen from flower to flower ,  these plants would cease to exist .
SENTENCE but the problem ,  well ,  as natural habitat along these migration routes is developed by humans for housing or agriculture or cleared for raising cattle ,  for instance ,  there is less food available for migrating humming birds .
SENTENCE their nesting sites are affected too ,  the same ,  by the same sorts of human activities .
SENTENCE and all of these activities pose a real threat to the humming bird population .
SENTENCE so to help them survive ,  we need to preserve their habitats .
SENTENCE and one of the concrete ways people have been doing this is by cleaning up polluted habitat areas and then replanting flowers ,  um ,  replanting native flowers that humming birds feed on .
SENTENCE promoting ecological tourism is another way to help save their habitat .
SENTENCE as the number of visitors ,  eco tourists who come to humming bird habitats to watch the birds ,  the more the number of visitors grows ,  the more local businesses profit ,  so ecological tourism can bring financial rewards ,  all the more reason to value these beautiful little creatures in their habitat ,  right ?
SENTENCE but to understand more about how to protect and support humming birds the best we can ,  we've got to learn more about their breeding ,  nesting sites and migration routes ,  and also about the natural habitats we find there .
SENTENCE that should help us determine how to prevent further decline in the population .
SENTENCE a good research method ,  a good way to learn more ,  is by running a banding study .
SENTENCE banding the birds allows us to track them over their lifetime .
SENTENCE it's been a practice that's been used by researchers for years .
SENTENCE in fact ,  most of what we know about humming birds comes from banding studies ,  where we capture a humming bird and make sure all the information about it ,  like its weight and age and length ,  are all recorded ,  put into international ,  an international information database .
SENTENCE and then we place an extremely lightweight band on one of its legs ,  well ,  what looks like a leg ,  although technically it's considered part of the bird's foot .
SENTENCE anyway ,  these bands are perfectly safe ,  and some humming birds have worn them for years with no evidence of any problems .
SENTENCE the band is labeled with a tracking number ,  oh ,  and there is a phone number on the band for people to call for free ,  to report a banded bird they've found or recaptured .
SENTENCE so when a banded bird is recaptured and reported ,  we learn about its migration route ,  its growth ,  and how long it has been alive ,  its lifespan .
SENTENCE one recaptured bird had been banded almost 12 years earlier   she is one of the oldest humming birds on record .
SENTENCE another interesting thing we've learned is that some humming birds ,  um ,  they no longer use a certain route .
SENTENCE they travel by a different route to reach their destination .
SENTENCE and findings like these have been of interest to biologists and environmental scientists in a number of countries who are trying to understand the complexities of how changes in a habitat affect the species in it .
QUESTION what does the professor say people have done to help hummingbirds survive
OPTION they have built a series of hummingbird feeding stations 0
OPTION they have supported new laws that punish polluters of wildlife habitats 0
OPTION they have replanted native flowers in once polluted areas 1
OPTION they have learned to identify various hummingbird species 0
