SENTENCE so ,  are there any questions ?
SENTENCE yes ,  um ,   harrison ,  you were saying that the periodic table is predictive .
SENTENCE what exactly does that mean ?
SENTENCE i mean i understand how it organizes the elements but where's the prediction ?
SENTENCE ok ,  let's look at our periodic table again .
SENTENCE ok ,  it groups elements into categories that share certain properties ,  right ?
SENTENCE and it is arranged according to increasing atomic number ,  which is  the number of protons in each atom of an element .
SENTENCE right ,  well ,  early versions of the periodic table had gaps ,  missing elements .
SENTENCE every time you had one more proton ,  you had another element .
SENTENCE and then ,  oops ,  there'd be an atomic number ,  for which there was no known element .
SENTENCE and the prediction was that an element with that atomic number existed somewhere ,  but it just hadn't been found yet .
SENTENCE and its location in the table would tell you what properties it should have .
SENTENCE it was really pretty exciting for scientists at that time to find these missing elements and confirm their predictive properties .
SENTENCE um ,  actually ,  that reminds of a    of a very good example of all these ,  element 43 .
SENTENCE see on the table ,  the symbols for elements 42 and 44 .
SENTENCE well ,  in early versions of the table ,  there was no symbol for an element 43 protons because no element with 43 protons had been discovered yet .
SENTENCE so the periodic table had a gap between elements 42 and 44 .
SENTENCE and then in 1925 ,  a team of chemists led by a scientist named ida tacke claimed that they had found element 43 .
SENTENCE they had been using a relatively new technology called x ray spectroscopy ,  and they were using this to examine an ore sample .
SENTENCE and they claimed that they'd found an element with 43 protons .
SENTENCE and they named it masurium .
SENTENCE um ,   harrison ,  then ,  how come in my periodic table here ,  element 43 is tc ,  that's technetium ,  right ?
SENTENCE ok ,  let me add that .
SENTENCE actually ,  um ,  that's the point i'm coming to .
SENTENCE hardly anyone believed that tacke'd discovered a new element .
SENTENCE x ray spectroscopy was a new method at that time .
SENTENCE and they were never able to isolate enough masurium to have a weighable sample to convince everyone of the discovery .
SENTENCE so they were discredited .
SENTENCE but then ,  12 years later in 1937 ,  a different team became the first to synthesize an element using a cyclotron .
SENTENCE and that element had   that's right ,  but they named it technetium to emphasize that it was artificially created with technology .
SENTENCE and people thought that synthesizing this element ,  making it artificially was the only way to get it .
SENTENCE we still hadn't found it occuring in nature .
SENTENCE now element 43 ,  whether you call it masurium or technetium ,  is radioactive .
SENTENCE why does that matter ?
SENTENCE what is true of a radioactive element ?
SENTENCE it decays ,  it turns into other elements .
SENTENCE oh ,  so does that explain why it was missing in the periodic table ?
SENTENCE exactly ,  because of its radioactive decay ,  element 43 doesn't last very long .
SENTENCE and therefore ,  if that ever had been present on earth ,  it would have decayed ages ago .
SENTENCE so the masurium people were obviously wrong ,  and the technetium people were right .
SENTENCE right ?
SENTENCE well ,  that was then ,  now we know that element 43 does occur naturally .
SENTENCE it can be naturally generated from uranium atoms that have spontaneously split .
SENTENCE and guess what ,  the ore sample the masurium group was working with had plenty of uranium in it enough to split into measurable amounts of masurium .
SENTENCE so tacke's team might very well have found small amounts of masurium in the ore sample .
SENTENCE it's just that once was generated from split uranium ,  it decayed very quickly .
SENTENCE and you know here's an incredible irony ,  ida tacke ,  the chemist led the masurium team ,  well ,  she was the first to suggest that uranium could break up into smaller pieces ,  but she didn't know that that was the defense of her own discovery of element 43 .
SENTENCE so is my version of the periodic table wrong ?
SENTENCE should element 43 really be called masurium ?
SENTENCE maybe ,  but you know it's hard to tell for sure after all this time ,  if ida tacke's group did discover element 43 .
SENTENCE they didn't ,  um ,  publish enough detail on their methods or instruments for us to know for sure .
SENTENCE but i'd like to think element 43 was discovered twice .
SENTENCE as masurium ,  it was the first element discovered that occurs in nature only from spontaneous fission ,  and as technetium ,  it was the first element discovered in a laboratory .
SENTENCE and of course ,  it was an element the periodic table let us to expect existed before anyone had found it or made it .
QUESTION in the beginning of the lecture a student asks a question about the periodic table , how does the story of element 43 answer her question
OPTION by providing an example of an element whose place in the periodic table was moved 0
OPTION by providing an example of an element whose existence was predictable from the periodic table 1
OPTION by providing an example of an element which scientists predicted was formed from uranium 0
OPTION by providing an example of an element that can only be made artificially 0
