SENTENCE now ,  james ,  you said you had been to the state of maine ,  right ?
SENTENCE yeah ,  actually i lived in western maine until i was about sixteen .
SENTENCE great .
SENTENCE so why don't you tell everybody what is like there in the winter ?
SENTENCE the winter ?
SENTENCE well ,  it's cold .
SENTENCE and there's lots of snow ,  you wouldn't believe how much snow we actually i would .
SENTENCE i did field research up there a couple of winters .
SENTENCE and it really is an incredible environment .
SENTENCE and to survive in that sort of environment ,  animals have to adapt ,  to evolve in response to their surroundings .
SENTENCE as you recall ,  an adaptation is any feature ,  um   physical or behavioral feature of a species that helps it survive and reproduce .
SENTENCE and in adapting to extreme climates ,  like maine in the winter time ,  animals can evolve in pretty interesting ways .
SENTENCE take ,  for example ,  the snowshoe hare .
SENTENCE ok ,  the snowshoe hare ,  and of course ,  that's h a r e ,  like a rabbit .
SENTENCE although i probably should mention that technically a hare is not exactly the same as a rabbit ,  even though it is very similar  .
SENTENCE the primary difference is that a rabbit's young are born blind and without fur  ,  while a hare's babies are born with a full coat and able to see .
SENTENCE now ,  the snowshoe hare ,  tell me ,  what sort of adaptations do you think it has developed that help it survive the maine winters ?
SENTENCE i'll give you a hint .
SENTENCE food isn't an issue .
SENTENCE the hare actually has abundant food in the small twigs it finds .
SENTENCE well ,  i don't know .
SENTENCE i mean ,  i know we used to try to look for these rabbits ,  eh   hares ,  when we went hiking in the winter  ,  but it was often hard to find them in the snow .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE that's exactly right .
SENTENCE the major concern of the snowshoe hare in the winter is predators .
SENTENCE and now that includes humans .
SENTENCE so one of its adaptations is basically camouflage .
SENTENCE in other words ,  its coat ,  its fur  ,  turns from brown in the summer to white in the winter  ,  which makes it harder for the hare's predators to see it against the white snow .
SENTENCE yeah ,  but i could swear i remembered seeing rabbits in the snow a couple of times ,  i means hares ,  that were brown .
SENTENCE well ,  you may very well have .
SENTENCE timing is really important ,  but the snowshoe hare doesn't always get it exactly right .
SENTENCE its chances for survival are best if it turns white about the time of the first snowfall .
SENTENCE and it's the amount of daylight that triggers the changing of the hare's coat .
SENTENCE as the days get shorter  ,  that is ,  as the sun is up for a shorter and shorter time each day ,  the snowshoe hare starts growing white fur and shedding its brown fur  .
SENTENCE the hare does a pretty good job with its timing ,  but sometimes when there's a really early or late snow ,  it stands out .
SENTENCE plus ,  it takes about a month for the snowshoe hare's coat to completely change color  .
SENTENCE so if there's a particularly early snowfall ,  it's very likely that the hare's fur would not yet be totally white .
SENTENCE and that would make this a particularly dangerous time for the hare .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE what else ?
SENTENCE other adaptations ?
SENTENCE susan ?
SENTENCE well ,  it's called the snowshoe hare ,  so are its feet somehow protect it from the cold ?
SENTENCE well ,  this animal's name does have to do with an adaptation of its feet .
SENTENCE uh   though ,  not like it has warm furry boots or something to keep its feet from getting cold .
SENTENCE you've probably never needed to wear snowshoes .
SENTENCE but ,  well ,  snowshoes are not like thick furry shoes designed to keep the feet warm ,  they are actually quite thin ,  but very wide .
SENTENCE what they do is spread out the weight of the foot coming down on the snow .
SENTENCE see ,  the problem with walking on snow is that you sink in with every step .
SENTENCE but with snowshoes ,  you don't sink in ,  you walk on top of the snow .
SENTENCE it makes walking through the maine countryside in the winter much easier  .
SENTENCE anyway ,  the snowshoe hare has an adaptation that plays on the same idea .
SENTENCE it has hind feet that act like snowshoes .
SENTENCE i mean ,  it's paws are wide and they allow the hare to hop and run just at the surface of deep snow .
SENTENCE and this is a huge advantage for the snowshoe hare since by contrast ,  the feet of its predators usually sink right down into the snow .
SENTENCE now ,  another advantage related to this is that unlike many animals in winter ,  snowshoe hares can stay lean and light weight .
SENTENCE they accumulate essentially no body fat .
SENTENCE can anyone guess why this is so ?
SENTENCE they don't eat very much ?
SENTENCE well ,  yes .
SENTENCE but not because there isn't enough food around .
SENTENCE it's because ,  like i said ,  food is almost always within reach ,  and they don't have to store up a lot of food energy for the harsh winters .
QUESTION the professor explains that the snowshoe hare's food supply is available year round , what does the availability of food allow the snowshoe hare to do
OPTION store body fat for the cold months 0
OPTION remain lightweight through the winter 1
OPTION give birth during the winter 0
OPTION grow fur quickly during the first year after birth 0
