SENTENCE ok ,  now um ,  a sort of paradigmatic art form of the middle ages was stained glass art .
SENTENCE stained glass of course is simply glass that has been colored and cut into pieces and re assembled to form a picture or a decorative design .
SENTENCE to truly experience the beauty of this decorative glass you should see it with light passing through it ,  especially sunlight ,  which is why stained glass is usually used for windows .
SENTENCE but of course it has other uses ,  especially nowadays .
SENTENCE um ,  anyway the art of making stained glass windows developed in europe ,  urn ,  during the middle ages and was closely related to church building .
SENTENCE in the early 11 's a church building method was developed that reduced the stress on the walls so more space could be used for window openings allowing for large and quite elaborate window designs .
SENTENCE back then ,  the artists made their own glass ,  but first they came up with the design .
SENTENCE paper was scarce and expensive ,  so typically they drew the design onto a white tabletop .
SENTENCE they'd draw the principal outline but also outline the shape of each piece of glass to be used and indicate its color .
SENTENCE now in the window itself the pieces of glass would be held together by strips of lead .
SENTENCE so in the drawing the artists would also indicate the location of the lead strips .
SENTENCE then you could put a big piece of glass on the tabletop and see the design right through it and use it to guide the cutting of the glass into smaller pieces .
SENTENCE and the lead that was just to hold the pieces of glass together ?
SENTENCE well ,  lead is strong and flexible so it's ideal for joining pieces of glasses cut in different shapes and sizes .
SENTENCE but up to the 15th century the lead strips also helped create the design .
SENTENCE they were worked into the window as part of the composition .
SENTENCE they were used to outline figures to show boundaries just like you might use solid lines in a pencil drawing .
SENTENCE how did they get the color  ?
SENTENCE i mean how did they color the glass ?
SENTENCE well up until the 16th century stained glass was colored during the glass making process itself .
SENTENCE you got specific colors by adding metallic compounds to the other glass making ingredients .
SENTENCE so if you wanted red you added copper ,  if you wanted green you added iron .
SENTENCE you just added these compounds to the other ingredients that the glass was made of .
SENTENCE so each piece of glass is just one color ?
SENTENCE yes ,  at least up until the 16th century .
SENTENCE then they started   um    .
SENTENCE you started to get painted glass .
SENTENCE painted glass windows are still referred to as stained glass but the colors were actually painted directly onto clear glass after the glass was made .
SENTENCE so um    with this kind of stained glass ,  you could paint a piece of glass with more than one color .
SENTENCE and with painted glass they still used the lead strips ?
SENTENCE yes ,  with really large windows it took more than one piece of glass ,  so you still needed lead strips to hold the pieces together .
SENTENCE but the painters actually tried to hide them .
SENTENCE so it was different from before when the lead strips were part of the design .
SENTENCE and it is different ,  because with painted glass the idea of light corning through to create the magical effect wasn't the focus any more .
SENTENCE the paintwork was .
SENTENCE and painted glass windows became very popular .
SENTENCE in the 19th century ,  people started using them in private houses and public buildings .
SENTENCE unfortunately ,  many of the original stained glass windows were thought to be old fashioned and they were actually destroyed ,  replaced by painted glass .
SENTENCE they actually broke them ?
SENTENCE that showed good judgment ,  real foresight ,  didn't it ?
SENTENCE yes ,  if only they had known .
SENTENCE uh ,  and it's not just that old stained glass is really valuable today ,  we lost possibly great artwork .
SENTENCE but luckily there was a revival of the early techniques in the mid i 8 's and artists went back to creating colored glass and using the lead strips in their designs .
SENTENCE the effects are much more beautiful .
SENTENCE in the 19th century ,  louis tiffany came up with methods to create beautiful effects without having to paint the glass .
SENTENCE he layered pieces of glass and used thin copper strips instead of lead ,  which let him make these really intricate flowery designs for stained glass ,  which he used in lampshades .
SENTENCE you've heard of tiffany lampshades ,  right ?
SENTENCE these of course took advantage of the new innovation of electric lighting .
SENTENCE electric light bulbs don't give quite the same effect as sunlight streaming through stained glass ,  but it's close .
SENTENCE so layered glass ,  tiffany glass ,  became very popular and still is today .
SENTENCE so let's look at some examples of different types of stained glass from each era .
QUESTION what does the professor imply contributed to the popularity of tiffany glass
OPTION the use of lead compounds to enhance its colors 0
OPTION the reuse of stained glass from old church windows 0
OPTION the invention of electric lighting 1
OPTION a new process for painting glass 0
