SENTENCE now astronomy didn't really bloom into the science it is today until the development of spectroscopy .
SENTENCE spectroscopy is basically the study of spectra and spectral lines of light ,  and specifically for us ,  the light from stars .
SENTENCE it makes it possible to analyze the light emitted from stars .
SENTENCE when you analyze this light ,  you can figure out their distance from the earth ,  and identify what they are made of ,  determine their chemical composition .
SENTENCE before we get into that though ,  it's probably a good thing to back up a bit .
SENTENCE you all know how when you take a crystal prism and pass a beam of sunlight through it ,  you get a spectrum ,  which looks like a continuous band of rainbow colors .
SENTENCE the light that we see with our human eyes as a band of rainbow color falls in the range of what's called visible light .
SENTENCE and visible light spectroscopy is probably the most important kind of spectroscopy .
SENTENCE anyone want to take a stab at the scientific term for visible light ?
SENTENCE and i'm sure all of you know this because you all did the reading for today .
SENTENCE optical radiation .
SENTENCE but i thought being exposed to radiation is dangerous .
SENTENCE yes ,  and no .
SENTENCE if you are talking about radiation ,  like in the element uranium ,  yeah ,  that's dangerous .
SENTENCE but radiation as a general term actually refers to anything that spreads away from its source .
SENTENCE so optical radiation is just visible light energy spreading out .
SENTENCE ok ,  so we've got a spectrum of a beam of sunlight and it looks like the colors bleed into each other .
SENTENCE there are no interruptions ,  just a band flowing from violet to green ,  to yellow ,  to  you get the idea .
SENTENCE well ,  what happens if the sunlight's spectrum is magnified ?
SENTENCE maybe you all didn't do the reading .
SENTENCE well ,  here's what you'd see .
SENTENCE i want you to notice that this spectrum is interrupted by dark lines called spectral lines .
SENTENCE if you really magnify the spectrum of the sunlight ,  you could identify more than 1   ,     of them .
SENTENCE they may look like kind of randomly placed ,  but they actually form many distinct patterns .
SENTENCE and if you were looking at the spectrum of some other star ,  the colors would be the same .
SENTENCE but the spectral lines would break it up at different places ,  making different patterns .
SENTENCE each pattern stands for a distinct chemical element ,  and so different sets or patterns of spectral lines mean that the star has a different chemical composition .
SENTENCE so how do we know which spectral patterns match up with which elements ?
SENTENCE well ,  a kind of spectroscopic library of elements was compiled using flame tests .
SENTENCE a known element ,  say a piece of iron for example ,  is heated in a pure gas flame .
SENTENCE the iron eventually heats to the point that it radiates light .
SENTENCE this light is passed through a prism ,  which breaks it up into a spectrum .
SENTENCE and a unique pattern ,  kind of like a chemical fingerprint of spectral lines for that element appears .
SENTENCE this process was repeated over and over again for many different elements ,  so we can figure out the chemical makeup of another star by comparing the spectral pattern it has to the pattern of the elements in the library .
SENTENCE oh ,  an interesting story about how one of the elements was discovered through spectroscopy .
SENTENCE there was a pretty extensive library of spectral line patterns of elements even by the 186's .
SENTENCE a british astronomer was analyzing a spectrograph of sunlight ,  and he noticed a particular pattern of spectral lines that didn't match anything in the library .
SENTENCE so he put two and two together ,  and decided there was an element in the sun that hadn't been discovered here on the earth yet .
SENTENCE any guesses about what that element is ?
SENTENCE it actually turned out to be pretty common and i'm sure all of you know it .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE let's try something else .
SENTENCE any of you happened to be familiar with the greek word for  sun  by chance ?
SENTENCE something like  helius  or something like that .
SENTENCE oh ,  it must be  helium  .
SENTENCE so you are saying that helium was discovered on the sun first .
SENTENCE yes ,  and this is a good example of how important spectroscopy is in astronomy .
QUESTION what does the professor explain to one of the students about the term radiation
OPTION it is defined incorrectly in the textbooks 0
OPTION it was first used in the nineteenth century 0
OPTION it is rarely used by astronomers 0
OPTION it does not refer only to harmful energy 1
