SENTENCE uh ,  excuse me ,  professor thompson .
SENTENCE i know your office hours are tomorrow ,  but i was wondering if you had a few minutes free now to discuss something .
SENTENCE sure ,  john .
SENTENCE what did you want to talk about ?
SENTENCE well ,  i have some quick questions about how to write up the research project i did this semester about climate variations .
SENTENCE oh ,  yes .
SENTENCE you were looking at variations in climate in the grant city area ,  right ?
SENTENCE how far along have you gotten ?
SENTENCE i've got all my data ,  so i'm starting to summarize it now ,  preparing graphs and stuff .
SENTENCE but i'm just .
SENTENCE i'm looking at it and i'm afraid that it's not enough ,  but i'm not sure what else to put in the report .
SENTENCE i hear the same thing from every student .
SENTENCE you know ,  you have to remember now that you're the expert on what you've done .
SENTENCE so ,  think about what you'd need to include if you were going to explain your research project to someone with general or casual knowledge about the subject ,  like  .
SENTENCE like your parents .
SENTENCE that's usually my rule of thumb  would my parents understand this ?
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE i get it .
SENTENCE i hope you can recognize by my saying that how much you do know about the subject .
SENTENCE right .
SENTENCE i understand .
SENTENCE i was wondering if i should also include the notes from the research journalyes ,  definitely .
SENTENCE you should use them to indicate what your evolution in thought was through time .
SENTENCE so ,  just set up ,  you know ,  what was the purpose of what you were doing to try to understand the climate variability of this area and what you did ,  and what your approach was .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE so ,  for example ,  i studied meteorological records  i looked at climate charts  i used different methods for analyzing the data ,  like certain statistical tests  and then i discuss the results .
SENTENCE is that what you mean ?
SENTENCE yes ,  that's right .
SENTENCE you should include all of that .
SENTENCE the statistical tests are especially important .
SENTENCE and also be sure you include a good reference section where all your published and unpublished data came from ,   cause you have a lot of unpublished climate data .
SENTENCE hmm  .
SENTENCE something just came into my mind and went out the other side .
SENTENCE that happens to me a lot ,  so i've come up with a pretty good memory management tool .
SENTENCE i carry a little pad with me all the time and jot down questions or ideas that i don't want to forget .
SENTENCE for example ,  i went to the doctor with my daughter and her baby son last week and we knew we wouldn't remember everything we wanted to ask the doctor ,  so we actually made a list of five things we wanted answers to .
SENTENCE a notepad is a good idea .
SENTENCE since i'm so busy now at the end of the semester ,  i'm getting pretty forgetful these days .
SENTENCE ok .
SENTENCE i just remembered what i was trying to say before .
SENTENCE good .
SENTENCE i was hoping you'd come up with it .
SENTENCE yes .
SENTENCE it ends up that i have data on more than just the immediate grant city area ,  so i also included some regional data in the report .
SENTENCE with everything else it should be a pretty good indicator of the climate in this part of the state .
SENTENCE sounds good .
SENTENCE i'd be happy to look over a draft version before you hand in the final copy ,  if you wish .
SENTENCE great .
SENTENCE i'll plan to get you a draft of the paper by next friday .
SENTENCE thanks very much .
SENTENCE well ,  see ya .
QUESTION why does the man go to see his professor
OPTION to borrow some charts and graphs from her 0
OPTION to ask her to explain some statistical procedures 0
OPTION to talk about report he is writing 1
OPTION to discuss a grade he got on a paper 0
