SENTENCE all right folks ,  let's continue our discussion of alternative energy sources and move on to what's probably the most well known alternative energy source    solar energy .
SENTENCE the sun basically provides earth with virtually unlimited source of energy everyday ,  but the problem has always been how do we tap this source of energy .
SENTENCE can anyone think of why it's so difficult to make use of solar energy ?
SENTENCE because it is hard to gather it ?
SENTENCE that's exactly it .
SENTENCE solar energy is everywhere ,  but it's also quite diffused .
SENTENCE and the thing is the dream of solar energy is not a new one .
SENTENCE humanity has been trying to use the sun's light as a reliable source of energy for centuries .
SENTENCE and around the beginning of the 2 th century there were actually some primitive solar water heaters on the consumer market .
SENTENCE but they didn't sell very well .
SENTENCE any of you wanna guess why ?
SENTENCE well ,  there were other energy choices like oil and natural gas ,  right ?
SENTENCE yeah .
SENTENCE and for better or for worse ,  we chose to go down that path as a society .
SENTENCE when you consider economic factors ,  it's easy to see why .
SENTENCE but then in the 197's ,  there was an interest in solar energy again .
SENTENCE why do you think that happened ?
SENTENCE because oil and natural gas were  err  became scarce ?
SENTENCE well ,  not exactly .
SENTENCE the amount of oil and natural gas in the earth was still plentiful ,  but there were other reasons .
SENTENCE it's a political thing really and i'm gonna get into that now .
SENTENCE so what happened in the 197's was oil and natural gas became very expensive very quickly ,  and that spurred people to start looking into alternative forms of energy ,  solar energy probably being the most popular .
SENTENCE but then in the 8's ,  this trend reversed itself when the price of oil and natural gas went down .
SENTENCE alright ,  let's shift our focus now to some of the technologies that have been invented to overcome the problem of gathering diffused solar energy .
SENTENCE the most basic solution is simply to carefully place windows in a building ,  so that the sun shines into the building and then it's absorbed and converted into heat .
SENTENCE can anyone think of where this is most commonly used ?
SENTENCE yep ,  greenhouses where plants are kept warm and provided with sunlight ,  because the walls of the building are made entirely of glass .
SENTENCE but we do also have more complex systems that are used for space heating and they fall into two categories ,  passive and active heating systems .
SENTENCE passive systems take advantage of the location or design of a house .
SENTENCE for example ,  solar energy is gathered through large glass panels facing the sun .
SENTENCE the heat is then stored in water filled tanks or concrete .
SENTENCE no mechanical devices are used in passive heating systems .
SENTENCE they operate with little or no mechanical assistance .
SENTENCE with active systems ,  on the other hand ,  you collect the solar energy at one location ,  and then you use pumps and fans to move heat from the collectors through a plumbing system to a tank ,  where it can be used to heat a home or to just provide hot water .
SENTENCE excuse me ,  professor ,  but i've got to ask ,  how can solar energy work at night or on cloudy days ?
SENTENCE that's  well  that is a really good question .
SENTENCE as a matter of facts ,  science is still working on it ,  trying to find ways of enhancing energy storage techniques so that the coming of night or cloudy days really wouldn't matter .
SENTENCE that is the biggest drawback to solar energy .
SENTENCE the problem of what do you do in cases where the sun's light is weak or virtually non present .
SENTENCE so the storage of solar energy ,  lots of solar energy ,  is a really important aspect .
SENTENCE does that mean that solar energy can only be used on a small scale ,  like heating a home ?
SENTENCE well actually ,  there have been some attempts to build solar energy power plants .
SENTENCE the world's largest solar power plant is located in kremer junction california .
SENTENCE it can generate 194 megawatts of electric power ,  but that's just a drop in the bucket .
SENTENCE right now the utility companies are interested in increasing the capacity of the kremer junction plant ,  but only time will tell if it will ever develop into a major source of power for that region ,  considering the economic and political factors involved .
QUESTION what is the difference between passive and active heating systems
OPTION passive systems are less reliable 0
OPTION passive systems are difficult to install 0
OPTION passive systems can be used at any location 0
OPTION passive systems work without mechanical support 1
